1. What is the current year for UFGQ?
A:2009
B:2410
C:2415
D:2416
D
2. Which two ships began the UFGQ experience?
A:The USS Enterprise and the USS Defiant
B:The USS Sentinel and the USS Nishi
C:The USS Victory and the USS Sentinel
D:The USS Victory and the USS Nishi
C
3. What did the USS Victory find while studying the transwarp conduits left over from the Borg in the Delta Quadrant?
A:the Borg
B:another ship
C:readings showing that a ship could travel to the Gamma Quadrant in less than 3 days.
D:readings showing that a ship could travel to the Alpha Quadrant in less than 3 days
D
4. What happened when the two ships entered the transwarp conduit?
A:The engines blew
B:The went back in time
C:They jumped forward in time.
D:They wound up in the Gamma Quadrant
C
5. What was the new assignment that Starfleet gave the two ships after they spent a few years in the Alpha Quadrant?
A:to to set up a base in the Gamma quadrant.
B:to test a new transwarp drive.
C:to investigate a new  transwarp conduit.
D:to go to Bajor and would be stationed on DS9.
B
6. What happens to the two ships when they fire up the transwarp drives?
A:The drives blow up, sending both ships forward to the year 2375.
B:The drives work perfectly, taking the ships directly to the Gamma Quadrant.
C:The ships arrive at Bajor, badly damaged and are decommissioned.
D:The drives blow up, sending both ships backward to the year 2410
A
7. How long did the crews stay on Bajor?
A:A few weeks for  R&R.
B:A couple of months for repairs.
C:A couple of years stationed on DS9.
D:They never arrived at Bajor.
B
8. What fleet does the two ships meet up with once in the Gamma Quadrant?
A:Alpha Fleet
B:Beta Fleet
C:Delta Fleet
D:Gamma Fleet
A
9. What system is Alpha Fleet located in?
A:The Magellan System on the planet Majel
B:The Casus system on the planet Majel
C:The Magellan System on the planet Casus Prime.
D:The Casus system on the planet Casus Prime.
D
10.  What is the planet name that UFGQ currently exists at?
A:planet Rosemist Isle
B:planet Majel
C:planet Casus Prime.
D:planet Earth.
A
