1. What did Admiral Janeway's Diplomacy professor used to say on First Contact Situations ?
A:'Never attempt to kill the beast before you even reached it !'
B:'The opening 20 minutes of a first contact situation are the most crucial.'
C:'Never try to make a First Contact on your own.'
D:All of the above.
B
2. In the Pre-First Contact - Evaluation phase you will have to find answers to the following question. Which one is correct ?
A:Is land-travel capability already mastered in this culture  ?
B:Does the subject culture have a long standing history of violence ?
C:Has the subject culture not yet encountered races that are alien to them ?
D:All of the above.
C
3. When will there be need for a Member of Diplomatic Corps (MDC) on a First Contact Team (FCT) ?
A:When there are two or more ‘NO’s’ to those questions of the Pre-First Contact - Evaluation phase.
B:When there are two or more ‘YES’’ to those questions of the Pre-First Contact - Evaluation phase.
C:Never
D:Always
A
4. How should you start the first greeting  that is to be sent to the subject culture upon First Contact ?
A:You boneheads couldn't even scratch our hull plating! Prepare to Die!"
B:Your culture will adapt to service us. Resistance is futile."
C:Greetings we come in peace, in the hope of a lucrative exchange of goods."
D:Greetings from the United Federation of Planets,
D
5. What equipment should a First Contact Team (FCT) bring with it or not to the First Contact when beaming down ?
A:Starfleet Standard Universal Translators
B:Weapons shouldn’t be worn openly, and, if avoidable, not be carried at all depending on the status of the culture.
C:Other Equipment carried by the FCT should be kept as widely limited as possible to prevent accidental contamination.
D:All of the above.
D
6. After the First Contact is made what should then follow immediately?
A:A debrief aboard.
B:A banquet.
C:A report to Starfleet Command.
D:Nothing, it’s done.
A
7. You are invited by the Subject Culture to attend some time-honored tradition. What do you do?
A:You accept and actively take part.
B:You accept and avoid being part of it, you just act as an observer.
C:A report to Starfleet Command and ask for advice – if no MDC is readily available.
D:You decline, and politely remind them of the Prime Directive
B
8. You happen to encounter a telepathic race. Are there any of the below mentioned considerations involved ?
A:You can skip the Evaluation Phase totally as they will easily disguise you.
B:You need to be aware that telepaths are generally spoken extremely aggressive and usually not at all afraid of you.
C:You need to be aware that telepaths are generally spoken extremely peaceful.
D:A + C are correct.
D
9. Is contamination of the Subject Culture a problem ?
A:Yes. Leaving anything behind you, once you leave the SC, can trigger unforeseen reactions in the SC.
B:Yes. Starfleet does not contaminate or pollute. We are a green fleet.
C:No. If they are not as technologically advanced than ourselves we share what we have.
D:No. If they are higher technologically advanced than ourselves we don’t cause anything, but laughter.
A
10. Can the Klingons become a Member of the UFP – Under what conditions ?
A:Yes,  It must be  in accordance with Section 2 of Federation Legislation. Only, if they approach the UFP on their own free wish.
B:No,  the Klingons are a major race, thus we cannot offer actively a membership treaty to them.
C:Yes, great, go sign the contract in accordance with the Prime Directive.
D:None of the above.
A
