Greetings and welcome to the Starfleet Delta Quadrant Academy

My name is <INSTRUCTOR_NAME> and I will be your instructor for today's class.

Welcome to the SDQ Regulations and Protocols class.  

Please hold all questions until the end of the lecture, at which time, I will be glad to answer any that you may have.  

There will be an exam at the conclusion of the lecture.  

You may use your class notes, but please refrain for any talking during the exam.  

If you have any questions at that time, please IM the instructor.  

*Takes a deep breath and proceeds*

This class will strive to explain the rules and protocols of our group and the SIM we play on.

Starfleet Delta Quadrant is a group dedicated to being one of the Federation presences in the expanse known as the Delta Quadrant.  

We are a fully immersive Role Play (RP) group.  

This means we strive to stay in our group characters as much as possible.  

Occasionally, there are exceptions to this rule and we try to be understanding, but keep OOC (out of character) to a minimum.  

For example, for informational purposes, some of the Academy classes will be slightly OOC, while others will be fully IC (in character).  

Rules of the SIM:

The following rules apply to all persons- SDQ members and visitors, on this sim. 

Failure to comply with these rules will result in action being taken by SDQ Security, and will result in a report being filed with Linden Labs.

Please note that the following list serves as a guide to expected behavior and is NOT exhaustive.

GRIEFING – Griefing in any form will not be tolerated, and will
be dealt with by Security in an efficient and appropriate manner.  

Griefing can be defined as, but is not limited to:

·    Verbal or physical harassment of members

·    Unauthorized use of weapons

·    Unauthorized use of scripts or objects that lag the sim

·    Offensive language or behavior

DECORUM – The following rules are in place at all times:

·    Stay In Character as much as possible.  

Character behavior and dress MUST make sense in the Star Trek Universe of the 24th century.  

Use IM’s for OOC comments.  

·    Show respect for all members. 

·    Minimum Clothing required in public areas - for males this means shorts, for females this means bikinis

·    No explicit displays of affection 

·    No foul or abusive language

·    No drama!  If you have an issue with someone, bring it to your CO’s attention or the attention of our JAG.  

WEAPONS – Any and all weapons must be in safe mode and holstered at all times unless actively participating in an
authorized role-play, or at a designated weapons range.  

Any unauthorized use of weapons (not during a sanctioned SDQ RP) will result in the individual being banned from the group.  

This is NOT a full combat sim, although there may be combat elements during sim RP’s.  

TRESPASSING - Entering occupied housing or offices without the presence of the owner/renter or a member of the SDQ
administration is not permitted.  

In addition, teleporting blind directly into someone's office without prior permission is not permitted.  Do NOT teleport 

 someone into an office without asking the owner's permission first.

No em-Dash teleporting of yourselves or others during events and meetings.  We have placed teleporter pads and given landmarks to every location.  

EmDash beams can be very disruptive.  Let's keep the RP real and use the lifts and teleporters as they were designed for.

LITTERING - Unless given specific prior permission, all personal objects should be taken back to your inventory when not in use. 

Failure to do so will likely result in the object(s) being returned with SDQ taking no responsibility for any deeding issues that may occur as a result.

Group members who fail to follow SIM rules and Starfleet officers who fail to follow appropriate Protocols will receive a

formal reprimand which will be entered on their Service Record.  

Members with multiple violations will be brought to the Judge Advocate General (JAG).  

SDQ has a diverse character population.  

We welcome civilians in many different roles, from alien ambassadors to lounge bartenders.  

We have a wide range of Starfleet officers, from Academy cadets to Fleet Admirals.  

Show respect for all of our members.  

Civilian members are not required to (but may choose to) address Starfleet officers by rank, but should still stay in character.  

How to handle OOC:

1. If you must speak OOC, please try to do so in IM’s.  

2.  If you must speak OOC in chat, please do so by using (( )) to enclose your message.  


Starfleet Protocols:

SDQ Starfleet Officers must observe proper protocols at all times. 

When addressing a senior officer, the correct protocol is to use their TITLE until you have been given leave to call them “Sir” (or Ma’am).  

Starfleet regulations state that all officers are to be addressed as “Sir”, but many of our female officers prefer “Ma’am”.  

Find out first before making a mistake.  ASK!  

An exchange might look like this:

Ensign Crusher enters a room and finds Lieutenant Frank. 

  Ensign Crusher:  “Good afternoon, Lieutenant.  I enjoyed your lecture on warp field theory yesterday.”

Officers of superior rank have the option of addressing subordinates as, “Mr. Crusher” or “Ensign Crusher”.    

Here at SDQ, we do not salute.  

This is in keeping with most Star Trek cannon.  

It is customary, though, to stand and declare “Captain on deck!” or “Admiral on deck” if a person of either rank enters the room.  

Shipboard protocols may differ depending on the preferences of the individual Captain.  

Generally, when answering an order, subordinates to the Captain would respond in the affirmative and then execute the order.  

For example:

Captain Ant:  “Helm, set a course for Dividius Prime.”

Helmsman:  “Aye, Captain.  Setting course for Gamma mark 223.9, Dividius Prime.”

Other Group and SIM RP:

As we will be participating in cooperative RP experiences with our Allies and other sims so, please keep in mind the rules of  decorum!  

Show respect for members of ALL groups we interact with.  

Our rules still apply and their rules apply as well.  

When addressing their senior officers, follow the correct protocols.  

You are representing SDQ at all times!

Chain of Command:

The Chain of Command (CoC) is the line of authority and responsibility along which orders are passed. 

  At SDQ, the CoC is as follows:

Cadets report to their Academy Commanding Officer (CO).  

The Officers report to their Division heads and the Division heads report to the Admiral.  

An Admiral is assigned to every division.  Ask your CO for the Admiral assigned to your division.

Division heads can also hold a lower rank than someone else in their Division.  

You will still acknowledge the person as your Commanding Officer.  

Ranks are not just earned over time in the group.  Time in Grade or TiG plays an important part, however, your chances

 of any promotion rely mostly on your participation in the group. 

Just because someone takes on a Division Head assignment, they do not get an auto promotion to a certain rank.  

The Admiral reports to the Starfleet Delta Quadrant Committee.  
If a civilian has an issue, they can enter the CoC at the Division level.  

This means that a civilian would go directly to the appropriate Division Head to report a problem.  

Our JAG will help settle disputes as they come up.

Moving up in Rank:

Our rank system is based partially on Time in Grade (TiG). 

Your Time in Grade means that after a certain period of time in your current rank, your Division CO will review your progress

 and contributions and, if earned, will recommend you for promotion.  

Base TiG is 6 months for and Ensign before being considered for promotion.  

The head of awards and promotions will convene a meeting with a few Division heads who are selected at random.  

They will then review each of the member's Service Records that have been recommended for promotion and go over their

 progress and contributions they have made to the group in their current rank as well as total time in the group.  

Just because your TiG is up doesn't mean that you will get promoted.  

It just means that is when your file is brought up for review buy your Division CO and then the Admiralty.

If you did not get promoted, talk with your CO and do not ask why you did not get promoted.  

Find out what you can do to make a better contribution to the Department, Division, Ship and to the group as a whole. 

The best rule of thumb is: if you ask about getting a promotion - you probably will not.  

If you contribute and work hard, you will earn it.

Division Head Requirements:

Being a Division Head is a big responsibility.  You are in charge of your crew members, keeping them active in the group, and 

 ensuring they have all necessary training completed.  You are required to write any new classes your division may need.  In 
 
 addition, you are expected to help with recruitment for your division, and perform divisional RP with your crew or other divisions.

As a Division Head you are required to spend a minimum of 4 hours per week in group.  It can be on SIM greeting guests, giving classes to cadets, or off SIM recruiting.

We are a brand new Trek group and so much needs to be done to get us up and running.  Together we can make this happen.

This concludes our lecture for today.

<LIGHTS_ON>

Are there any questions?


*Looks around the room*

There Will Now be a Test

You will need to score 80% or better to pass this exam.  All grades are pass/fail only.

Good luck
