<DESC:Introduction to Caitian>
*Dims the lights and smiles at each cadet*
<LIGHTS_OFF>
<SOUND:581a69d3-37ea-3d17-766f-68cacafb8636>
Greetings and welcome to the Starfleet Delta Quadrant Academy!
<TEXTURE:23ce93f6-5e92-9e63-4fc7-8cf3f27f9c35>
My name is <INSTRUCTOR_NAME> and I will be your instructor for today's class.
Please hold all questions until the end of the lecture, at which time, I will be glad to answer any that you may have.
There will be an exam at the conclusion of the lecture.
You may use your class notes, but please refrain from any talking during the exam.
If you have any questions at that time, please IM the instructor
<TEXTURE:cfe35653-8b5e-f60c-d67f-eda31f52f539>
Welcome to the Command Division in SDQ!
Our class today is DIP-102 / Intro to Caitian
*Takes a deep breath and proceeds*
PHYSIOLOGY
The Caitians are a feline race. They are bipedal, possess sleek bodies covered in soft fur, which is of a golden coloration, similar to Terran lions.
Tall and lean, generally ranging in full grown height from 5’,11" to 6’,4", and weighing around 160 to 180 lbs. Life Expectancy is 125 to 175 years.
Having very low body fat, they have great difficulty swimming, and tend to dislike large bodies of water.
With long tails, manes, and fur coloration mostly part similar to Terran short hair domesticated cats.
They have extremely acute senses, large golden eyes that provide excellent low-light vision, and their vision is very motion sensitive.
However, they have less color acuity than the human norm. Their hearing is above Vulcan levels.
Their senses of taste and smell are more developed than humans, though it is far less developed than that say, of an Antican or Terran canine.
They can’t track by scent, though they can gain strong scent impressions when in close contact with another being.
The Caitian excellence in hearing makes them ideal experts in Communications. They hear ranges far above and below normal human ranges.
Standard adult Caitians wear a day-robe, a one piece outfit designed for coolness of wear, as Cait is 90% hot Savannah.
Children can wear day-robes, but it is not uncommon for them not to wear clothing until adolescence.
Caitians wear a collar at all times in public, as the neck is considered a vulnerable/sensitive area.
Bonded Caitians following old traditions may wear identical ankle bracelets, to show their devotion to each other.
According to the tradition, this anklet is never supposed to be removed for the rest of their lives.
Shoes or boots are typically not worn by Caitians, even in Starfleet.
Caitians are often considered among the most physically attractive species in the galaxy. Caitians are extremely agile, dexterous and fast.
Both hands and feet have retractable claws, which Caitians customarily grow long and sharp, though the use of those claws in combat is unthinkable.
Ancient Caitian legends also tell of a White Caitian, very few such Caitian have been born in recorded history (pure white being a rarity,
rarest of all is the silvered coloring of the almost extinct Polar Caitians).
Caitians are Carnivorous hunters, by nature.
They prefer their meat raw (blood temperature) or rare, and find it difficult to digest vegetables, although grains are easier.
Caitians are less hearty than humans, tiring after shorter periods of intense effort than the human norm.
Their physiology was designed for a predator’s wait and pounce, rather than long migrations. 90% Caitians suffer from Heart Disease.
This usually results in strokes and heart failure at around 70. Almost all Caitians above that age use artificial hearts.
As a result, the hospitals on Cait are the best at such surgeries, as they are so common.
Many Caitians in Star Fleet are engaged in regular cardiovascular training to compensate for this, and can exceed this, but only through regular consistent effort.
*Pauses to take a drink of water before continuing*
LANGUAGE
The Caitian language, Caition,  consists of multiple soft tones, spoken with a deep purring resonance;
this style of communication makes it difficult for the Caitians to adapt to phonetic languages.
To an outsider it sounds like just purring at first. After more listening, words can be made out of this soothing language.
Caitians speak Federation standard English when dealing with off worlders.
When a Caitian speaks Standard as a second language,
it is usually punctuated by purring "R"s and hissing "S"s. Caitian female names typically start with M', while male names typically start with S'.
CAITIAN NAMES
Caitian names are not just a way of keeping track of who's who. They also serve as a way to tell a little bit about a person's personality and family.
The modern, universal format for Caitian names is letter, apostrophe (thought the apostrophe doesn't appear in the Caitian spelling), and the last syllable.
Kits aren't named until they are about one year old. Usually, the parents will have nicknames for each individual child.
The first letter is indicative of the personality of the name's bearer.
An individual's personality rarely changes after the first year of their life, it's just the norm for the Caitian psyche.
Here's a list of what each letter means for personality.
R - strong willed/ stubborn
P - sympathetic/ empathic
L - thoughtful
S - curious
K - protective/ hunter's instinct
M - graceful/ calm
N - content
V - impulsive
T - gregarious
RELIGION
The main religion of Cait is the worship of the deity Rrikalla. Rrikalla controls all life in the universe.
Unlike the deities of some worlds, Rrikalla has no specified gender. For every birth, there is a death.
Rrikalla maintains existing life, as well, by providing the material things to sustain it; plants for the prey, prey for the predators, and finally predators feed the plants.
While it has rapidly been dwindling the last few centuries, a few Caitians still religiously worship their matron Deity, the Goddess M'haya,
a monotheistic entity, that according to their religion created the universe.
Opposing her are the Dark Ones, who try to trick Caitians and make their lives miserable.
The Goddess is worshiped in detailed statues, usually kept in a personal shine in the home.
Both religions are very similar in their beliefs, but Rrikallans tend to be more liberal in their beliefs while M'hayans are more disciplined and commited to their faith.
M'haya, notable for its emphasis on attainment of wisdom and enlightenment of inner self,
particularly as realized in the form of meditation known as Zigen'al. M'hayan training emphasizes daily life practice, along with intensive periods of meditation.
Practicing with others is an integral part of M'haya, which is basically the balance of the 4 elements
(Earth, Water, Air & Fire) to reach or attain spiritual enlightenment, aesthetic and erotic pleasure.
The following of Rrikalla has become the major religion of common Caitians, although many purists, the older elite families,
still hold onto their ancient roots of the Goddess.
The bow is the traditional form of extending respect, although other races have mistakenly interpreted it as a greeting.
They have a tendency toward politeness that rivals even that of the Vulcans, although they make no claim on logic.
They are an emotionally open and highly social people with which several off-world scientists have attributed to their long lifespan.
They are also a physical people, another thing that caused some confusion to the Terrans.
Caitians tend to be what the humans call 'touchy-feely.' Unlike the Kzinti, the Caitian race is not hostile in nature.
Their reputation as one of the most cooperative and intelligent members of the Federation makes Caitian crew members much sought-after throughout Starfleet.
*Pauses to take a breath before continuing*
THE PLANET CAIT
<TEXTURE:6f2d4a14-f725-c7b3-5a96-de4e35253d6b>
The Caitians call Cait "Ferasa" in their native language. The planet Cait is a normal class-M world within the Lynx constellation,
Cait is about .80 AU from a yellow star, orbiting Verrral, a Type G3 V star, yellow, slightly brighter than Sol.
It is the only habitable planet in its system and has two moons, Rea and Sura. Cait’s origins are steeped in mystery.
The Kzini, the Regulans, and the Lyrans all claim that Cait was essentially a "Lost Colony" of theirs.
Considering the similar genetic markup of the four species, those theories are possible.
However, it is also possible that all four species were seeded in that section of space by an alien race akin to the Preservers.
However it was formed, Caitian culture evolved separately from the other races. Initially, Caitians were a hunting people, wild predators on the Savannah.
However, what farming did to the humans, ranching did to the Caitians. The domestication of local wildlife turned the nomadic people into more sedentary people.
As a result, culture soon flourished and in a few thousand years, civilization, based around the ranch principle.
The asteroid belt that lies in the Caitian system is an abundant source of ores and valuable minerals, not the least of which is dilithium.
Orbital refining platforms within the belt provide a large percentage of the dilithium crystals used in that area of Federation space.
Cait would have remained a small, insignificant planet had not it’s system been rich in a rare element: Dilithium.
This brought it to the attention of the local powers, including the Federation. Cait was admitted to the Federation in 2234 and has been a great asset since.
The planet Cait isn't anything too unusual. It has five continents, three are very similar, one is far south and quite frozen,
the other is right on the equator and has thick vegetation.
The rest of the planet is ocean. It has a population of 5.2 billion people.
The largest continent is Larrrtov.
It is almost completely tall grass savanna. It is the perfect environment for hunting.
The continent of Pirrrem is the second largest.
It is, for the most part, a smaller version of Larrrtov. The only difference is size and shape.
There is evidence that, at one point, there was a land bridge from Pirrrem to Larrrtov.
It is suspected that the original Caitians migrated from one continent to the other, similar to the Terran migration from Asia to North America.
The last of the savanna continents is Canrral. It has a dry season that lasts for about 3/4 of the year.
It doesn't receive enough precipitation to allow grass to grow as tall as on Larrrtov or Pirrrem.
It wasn't heavily populated until domestication of animals made hunting unnecessary. The only heavily forested continent is L'narrr.
It is located directly on the equator and is covered in tropical forest. It was never, and still isn't, heavily populated. It has never come as much use,
except a few resorts which attract off-world visitors.
The last continent is Virrrtam.
It is located near Cait's southern pole. The only vegetation is a small area of tundra at its northernmost point.
It is uninhabited, but at one point it was the destination of exiled citizens from Canrral.
It does not cover the south pole, but the icecap does extend and join with it.
The boundary of actual land wasn't known until orbital scans were conducted in the early phase of Caitian space exploration.
GOVERNMENT
The planetary government is not as powerful as its counterparts on other worlds.
For the most part, individual provinces and districts govern themselves quick effectively.
A planetary government exists mostly because it is required to join the United Federation of Planets.
The government consists of two branches.
First, is the K'tarrela. This is the senatorial council.
The K'tarrela is composed of 500 members from around Cait.
They do not represent any particular region and are allowed to run for election only if they are shown to work solely for the good of Caitian society.
They create laws, agencies, and control the planetary militia in times of crisis.
The other branch is the novirrass, our court.
It is made up of 13 justices that are nominated by the K'tarrela and elected to office by the a vote of the continental courts.
The Novirrass is the highest court on the planet.
Appeals can be made to the UFP if parties are not satisfied with the court, though the court cannot accept off-world cases.
Any dispute with another world must be made to a UFP court. The continental courts are the governing courts for the individual continents of Cait.
They are the last step before the novirrass. Under them are several smaller courts to handle particular regions.
Centuries ago most of the courts were abolished due to globalization and acceptance into the UFP.
SOCIETY
Caitians live in close family groups, with attachments to larger clans. Caitians tend to take great pride in their appearance.
Cleanliness, well styled mane, groomed tail, fashionable dress, and perfectly maintained claws are all very important.
Failure to do so is seen as an act of self mutilation.
Caitians traditionally greet each other by clasping their hands and extending their claws to just touch each other’s wrist…
it is a sign of the great trust they have for each other.
As mentioned above well maintained claws are important in Caitian society, and to even think of using them to harm another being is beyond most Caitians.
Cities on Cait are be spread out and moderately developed, or built downward so as to have less affect on the environment.
Xenophobia is almost nonexistent, the main cause for intolerance being violence.
Caitians are trained from birth to avoid committing violent acts. Their societal right of passage is an oath to forswearing violence, taken at age 12.
They have had difficulties in relations with particularly warlike species, such as Klingons and Cardassians.
In the Federation Senate, Caitian Senators are among the first to call for negotiations and peaceful resolution.
The season where a Caitian Female is fertile occurs once every six months as well, at opposite parts of the year.
Caitians usually do not actively choose a mate, but instead they go through a process called bonding, which is as much physical as psychological.
After adolescence, Caitians give off a pheromone that tells others that they are unbonded and are therefore available.
When two Caitians bond, their pheromones shift and are now read as unavailable by other Caitains.
The two Caitians become addicted to each other's pheromones, and as a result feel the need to be close to one another.
The entire process occurs on a subconscious level and can happen without either Caitian knowing it at the time.
With rare exceptions, these Caitians fall in love and are married. As a result, Caitian society sees bonding as a form of engagement.
The intensity of the bond varies per individual. The bond lasts for the rest of the Caitians life, and is only broken upon the death of one of the Caitians.
CAITIANS IN THE FEDERATION
<TEXTURE:8fe5558f-037f-adc3-615d-579910bfdd17>
The Caitian world's joined the Federation shortly after its founding, and have been steadfast members ever since.
Their desire to serve the commonwealth has lead them to enlist in Star Fleet in great numbers.
For the most part, Caitians in Star Fleet are involved in Communications, Diplomatic Services,
Medical, Counseling and the Sciences, places where they can serve the common good without compromising their deeply ingrained pacifism.
Though Caitian shuttle and fighter designs are used as the basis for many of the Federations current versions.
The legendary Caitian cooperativeness is an attribute that makes them valued members of the Federation.
A smaller number have found a home in Engineering, and less than 20 are currently found in TAC/SC or the SFMC.
Before joining the Federation, Caitians had established territorial claims to four systems outside their own, and all four,
while maintaining close to the home-world, have long been independent of direct rule from Cait.
All Caitian worlds are open to other species, and as of last census, there were about 17 billion Caitians living throughout the Federation.
This concludes our lecture for today.
<TEXTURE:f2f090d8-5a92-69ab-5087-89ca7e8d7454>
<LIGHTS_ON>
Are there any questions?
*Looks around the room*
You may now start your test by activating the computer terminal in front of you.
You will need to score 80% or better to pass this exam.
If you do happen to fail the class you can request a written exam from the Academy Commandant.
All students will need to record the grade given on their weekly report. Instructors will record the grade in the gradebook.
Good luck
