<DESC:Introduction to the Borg>
*Dims the lights and smiles at each cadet*
<LIGHTS_OFF>
<SOUND:581a69d3-37ea-3d17-766f-68cacafb8636>
Greetings and welcome to the Starfleet Delta Quadrant Academy!
<TEXTURE:23ce93f6-5e92-9e63-4fc7-8cf3f27f9c35>
My name is <INSTRUCTOR_NAME> and I will be
your instructor for today's class.
Please hold all questions until the end of the lecture, at which time, I will be glad to answer any that you may have.
There will be an exam at the conclusion of the lecture.
You may use your class notes, but please refrain from any talking during the exam.
If you have any questions at that time, please IM the instructor
<TEXTURE:cfe35653-8b5e-f60c-d67f-eda31f52f539>
Welcome to the Command Division in SDQ!
Our class today is DIP-105 / Introduction to the Borg
*Takes a deep breath and proceeds*
"Strength is irrelevant, resistance is futile.
We wish to improve ourselves.
We will add your biological and technological distinctiveness to our own.
Your culture will adapt to service ours." -The Borg
The Borg are relentless, they have no emotion.
The Borg are cybernetic beings that roam the galaxy assimilating entire civilizations in the search for perfection.
<TEXTURE:7158ed18-12d7-86f5-5530-713c5f5bffa3>
CULTURAL AND HISTORICAL OVERVIEW
At one time the Borg were made completely of organic material.
It took years modifying and enhancing their biological makeup to incorporate synthetic technological enhancements in order to achieve perfect.
To have order out of chaos.
With this the Borg collective came into being along with a Borg Queen who spoke for the collective, who kept the order in the midst of chaos.
An individual is modified to wear the various cybernetic implants and hardware.
When this happens they lose all sense of individuality, they become a drone.
When an individual is assimilated they are absorbed into the Borg collective -a hive mind, also known as a  singular consciousness which incorporates all drones everywhere.
It is this control mechanism that drives the entire Borg unit with devastating efficiency.
A Borg drone can be compared to a ship's crew member in that they are programmed for certain ship tasks.
The way they do is drawing on the knowledge and experience of all Borg, all archived encounters, technology, tactical information and scientific data.
No other ship and crew are as close to perfection as the Borg are.
The Queen is the central nucleus (central voice) that the Borg draws on for order, decision-making and strategy for implementation of long-term goals.
The Queen is the one who decides what is to be done when, where and how.
The decision to conquer the Federation came from the Borg Queen herself.
Why did the Borg Queen want to do this? Besides the obvious to assimilate.
But why was she so adamant in this pursuit?
The answer is simple, because the Federation had a diverse of cultural and technology of facets for the Borg to draw from.
<TEXTURE:3da1b1d6-c801-3433-c3e7-511ab43eec59>
The Borg was first in Federation space in 2364, when a number of outposts along both sides of the Romulan Neutral Zone were destroyed.
At that time, no one knew who or what they were dealing with.
Pretty scary huh? Imagine living on those outposts that were destroyed.
Imagine their fright and how scared they must've felt.  Actual physical contact did not take place till a year later.
No thanks to Q.  Q had placed a Federation vessel right in the path of a Borg Cube, deep inside the Beta Quadrant.
But before Q returned the ship safely back into Federation space the Borg was able to scan the ship's computer core.
They learned a lot about a new species and their organization.
Ever since then, the Borg set a course for Federation space to conquer the entire Federation.
Approximately a year and a half later, the Borg arrived at their destination.
The Borg ended up kidnapping Jean-Luc Picard and turned him into Locutus.
Locutus was the official spokesperson/unit for the Collective.
The Borg thought that this would help to speed up the assimilation process.  Boy, were they mistaken.*Dims the lights and smiles at each cadet*
An Armada of 40 ships from the home fleet massed together at Wolf 359 in an attempt to prevent the Borg vessel reaching Earth.
All but one were lost in the bloody battle, where 11,000 lives were lost.
After Locutus was removed from the Borg Cube and returned to his starship, a crucial Achilles heel was discovered in the Borg command structure.
When commands to regenerate were fed into the Collective it triggered a chain of events, which destroyed the vessel, and the threat was over.
TECHNOLOGY
Borg Technology is extremely advanced in all areas, this is because it is a merger or consolidation of all that has
ever been assimilated. Such as arsenal of technology, weaponry, propulsion, biotechnology and computer
systems is being forever added to, progressed and embellished.
A dominating technological factor is the ability to adapt to their tactical environment.
Unknown alien capabilities such as weaponry and defensive shield status is monitored and analyzed,
allowing the collective to initiate countermeasure protocols and tactics, which can invariably render an opponent's offensive and defensive initiatives
redundant and ineffective very quickly.
In these situations the Borg would adapt their shields to weapons frequency modulations.
After the heuristic examination of alien shield configurations, and even mutation harmonics, weapon emission frequencies such as those of disruptor banks
and laser cutters can be modified to penetrate most shield systems.
<TEXTURE:c7ad77e7-a2cd-8ed7-f991-6bd51e8af8c2>
The Borg have installed a series of transwarp conduits, which permeate the galaxy.
From their native Delta Quadrant they are able to make rapid jumps covering great distances, and travel times can be hundreds of times faster than their maximum warp.
The Federation would normally employ a network of subspace sensor arrays and listening posts along their
borders to provide advance warnings of potential incursions, but the conduits provide undetectable shortcuts directly into their territory.
RECENT DIPLOMATIC AND MILITARY MATTERS
The Borg actually have no diplomatic department.
All interactive communication and negotiation is carried out by the central voice.
Shocking revelations that the Borg were present during the incident surrounding Humans first alien contact in
the 21st century were recently made to the Federation by way of the Enterprise-E. This new incident surrounding
a serious Borg incursion into Federation space occurred in 2373 when a single Borg vessel attempted to reach
Earth to begin the mass assimilation process.
The Cube was stopped in the Sol system by several groups of vessels that were close enough at the time to intercept.
Since Jean-Luc Picard had prior knowledge of the Borg ship systems was able to order all attacking vessels to target a specific area on the Cube.
Now, as Picard orders the ships to fire, a small vessel escaped the destruction of the mother ship and headed towards Earth.
This vessel was able to open a temporal vortex to Earth's past so that it could assimilate the population of Earth before first contact would be made.
They travel back to the 21st century, the day before first contact was made.
This happened in April 2063.
Zefram Cochrane test flew his Titan 5 missile that was capable of warp one; the ship is called the Phoenix.
This is the flight that caught the attention of an alien survey ship flying by the outer edge of the solar system.
These aliens are known as the Vulcans
The Borg was determined to destroy this ship to prevent first contact, therefore, making it easy to assimilate all of Earth's population.
But thanks to Enterprise-E and her crew the Borg was unsuccessful at preventing first contact.
Borg stats
General Information:
GOVERNMENT TYPE     	Collective (matriarchal)
GOVERNMENT BODY     	The Borg Collective
HOME SYSTEM     	unknown
MEMBER WORLDS     	0
CONQUERED WORLDS 	8637
AGE OF THE MODERN ERA 	unknown
MILITARY DEFENSE     	Borg Cube Network
General Resources
TECHNOLOGY RATING 	688.5
OCCUPIED TERRITORY 	138,190 sectors
FLEET SIZE         	29085 ships
PRIMARY WARSHIP     	Borg Cube
This concludes our lecture for today.
<TEXTURE:23ce93f6-5e92-9e63-4fc7-8cf3f27f9c35>
<LIGHTS_ON>
Are there any questions?
*Looks around the room*
You may now start your test by activating the computer terminal in front of you.
You will need to score 80% or better to pass this exam.
If you do happen to fail the class you can request a written exam from the Academy Commandant.
If you would like a copy of this class for further reference you can request  one from the Academy Commandant.
All students will need to record the grade given on their weekly report. Instructors will record the grade in the gradebook.
Good luck