<DESC:Intro to Ferengi>
*Dims the lights and smiles at each cadet*
<LIGHTS_OFF>
<SOUND:581a69d3-37ea-3d17-766f-68cacafb8636>
Greetings and welcome to the Starfleet Delta Quadrant Academy!
<TEXTURE:23ce93f6-5e92-9e63-4fc7-8cf3f27f9c35>
My name is <INSTRUCTOR_NAME> and I will be your instructor for today's class.
Please hold all questions until the end of the lecture, at which time, I will be glad to answer any that you may have.
There will be an exam at the conclusion of the lecture.
You may use your class notes, but please refrain from any talking during the exam.
If you have any questions at that time, please IM the instructor
<TEXTURE:cfe35653-8b5e-f60c-d67f-eda31f52f539>
Welcome to the Command Division in SDQ!
Our class today is  DIP-103 / Introduction to Ferengi
*Takes a deep breath and proceeds*
"A Ferengi without profit is no Ferengi at all" -18th Rule of Acquisition
Today we will be talking about the Ferengi.  We are going to cover the following:
Culture and History
Technology
Recent Diplomatic and Military matters.
The Ferengi live for their material wealth and possessions, and the constant desire to acquire more by any means necessary.
<TEXTURE:ccdbec59-6351-cf72-a7eb-eb870a96a77a>
The Ferengi is all about making a profit.
Even when no one else can see that a profit can be made, the Frenegi finds a way to do just that.
They have a set of rules called the "Rules of Acquisition".
There are 186 Rules of Acquisition.
For the complete list of "Rules of Acquisition" you can find them at http://www.sjtrek.com/trek/rules/
Now, on to the cultural and historical overview of the Ferengi.
CULTURAL AND HISTORICAL OVERVIEW
It did not take the Ferengi alliance long to build up a strong economical empire.  T
The way they accomplished this was by establishing a strong basis in the economy.
They did this by dealing and bribing their way to power.
They were able to acquire a variety of technology such as primitive warp drive and weapons.
It is not clear if it was done by deceit, fraud or traditional bartering.
Even though the Ferengi culture is diverse and rather idiosyncratic,
The population and the planet  remains a  mystery.
Little is known of their cultural interaction with other species beyond their wide network of trade relationships with neighboring species and empires.
We can assume they do have some successful methods as evidenced by a wide
network of trading and commercial agreements with neighboring species, systems and empires.
yes The reason behind the mystery is that outsiders are usually not welcomed on Ferenginar.
The first recognized diplomatic contact between the Ferengi and the Federation was in the Delphi Ardu system in the early part of 2364.
This is when a Ferengi Marauder came head to head with a Galaxy Class ship.
Relations between the two remained uneasy for the next few years, and diplomatic misunderstandings were barely adverted in the incident.
The Ferengi homeworld is called Ferenginar. This is where the Ferengi Alliance is located.
Ferenginar's climate can be described as having extreme humidity and moisture, with quite a bit of rainfall year round.
<TEXTURE:5d723391-8582-d1ad-f6d4-b737367f2b5d>
The Grand Nagus is generally the richest man in the heavily capitalistic Ferengi society.
He is the one who rules the Ferengi Alliance with his vast portfolio from the Chamber of Opportunity
in the Tower of Commerce, located in the Ferengi capital, the Sacred Marketplace.
Every prominent Ferengi businessman seeks to do business with the Nagus, whose authority is backed by the Ferengi Bill of Opportunities.
The Grand Nagus lives in the Nagal Residence.
Most of The Nagus's actions and policies will affect trade that spans the quadrant.
All trade is guided by the sacred book, "The Rules of Acquisition".
The Grand Nagus can come to office if, upon his death bed, the previous Nagus picking a predecessor
or can be appointed by the Ferengi Commerce Authority.
The Ferengi Commerce Authority also has the power to remove an unstable Nagus from office.
<TEXTURE e6d39f00-4a3e-9719-7d12-ad03f4a854f5>
Gold Pressed Latinum is the currency that is used for trade.
Value of Latinum from smallest to largest:
Slip
Strip
Bar
Brick
Nugget
20 strips of Latinum = 1 Bar of Latinum.
This is equivalent to something like:
Fifty Cents
One Dollar Bill
Twenty Dollar Bill
Fifty Dollar Bill
Hundred Dollar Bill
Latinum is a specially treated metallic compound that cannot be replicated or counterfeited.
This is the thing that defines and motivates the Ferengi ideology and lifestyle.  Acquisition Rule #102 "Nature decays, Latinum lasts forever"
The Ferengi Commerce Authority (FCA) is responsible for all trade practices all throughout the alliance.
They also possess broad ranging powers that can liquidate businesses.
Monitoring the financial and commodities exchanges of the modern Ferengi businessman is a full time occupation.
<TEXTURE:68e21708-5744-838b-f81b-b400981dc6e4>
Female Ferengi are not allowed to wear clothing, work, show their faces in public, or talk to non family members.
It is an unforgivable crime if a female Ferengi earns any profits or deals in any financial or business venture.
Their sole responsibilities are to reside entirely in the home,
providing food and clothing for the male members of the family and to take care of the children.
<TEXTURE:c750f7aa-06bf-6660-aef6-9ef960312b87>
TECHNOLOGY
Most of Ferengi technology has been obtained from outside sources.
They most likely acquired it through the Cardassians whose borders are fairly close.
As time went on, the military hardware was enhanced and supplemented by theft and trade alike.
Their flagship, the Marauder,  is just as advanced as any Federation, Klingon or Cadassian ships
They do not put their money into R&D for their ships -instead they use  reverse engineering of alien technology.
Their ships have traditional warp systems and are fitted with powerful plasma energy weapons as well.
If it is so desired by the military to invade or conquer to benefit business, or the acquisition of resources,
little will stand in the way that would interfere with their profit driven constitution.
In other words, if a profit is to be made they will make that profit by any means necessary.
<TEXTURE:190d105f-8a8c-2c1d-aed4-ca8b19f82970>
RECENT DIPLOMATIC AND MILITARY MATTERS
When trade negotiations with the Dominion fell through,
and potential opportunities through the Bajoran wormhole were all but lost,
it dealt a bitter blow to entrepreneurs everywhere.
The Ferengi were indeed concerned by the recent Dominion war.
First and foremost, trade routes across the quadrant collapsed or went dry.
Secondly, vast and expansive arterial networks fed the Ferengi economy,
and as such they found their military force somewhat lacking.
This would be their official diplomatic excuse as to their general absence from the Alpha Quadrant battlefield.
Little is generally known about 'Ferengi space',
and what lies within, or the relationship they share with the worlds and peoples that lie within their borders.
It is certain though that neighboring powers consider the Ferengi,
a definite threat, one worthy of constant surveillance and vigilance...
Ferengi Alliance stats
GOVERNMENT TYPE           	Capitalist Plutocracy
GOVERNMENT LEADER       	The Grand Nagus
HOME SYSTEM                    	Ferenginar
BRIBED MEMBER WORLDS	49
CONQUERED WORLDS        	70
AGE OF THE MODERN ERA 	10,055 (Earth years)
MILITARY DEFENSE             	Ferengi Military
TECHNOLOGY RATING   	375.5
OCCUPIED TERRITORY   	6,003 sectors
COLONIES                       	980
FLEET SIZE                      	2122 ships
PRIMARY WARSHIP      	Marauder
This concludes our lecture for today.
<TEXTURE:23ce93f6-5e92-9e63-4fc7-8cf3f27f9c35>
<LIGHTS_ON>
Are there any questions?
*Looks around the room*
You may now start your test by activating the computer terminal in front of you.
You will need to score 80% or better to pass this exam.
If you do happen to fail the class you can request a written exam from the Academy Commandant.
If you would like a copy of this class for further reference you can request one from the Academy Commandant.
All students will need to record the grade given on their weekly report. Instructors will record the grade in the gradebook.
Good luck
