<DESC:Introduction to Klingon>
*Dims the lights and smiles at each cadet*
<LIGHTS_OFF>
<SOUND:581a69d3-37ea-3d17-766f-68cacafb8636>
Greetings and welcome to the Starfleet Delta Qaudrant Academy!
<TEXTURE:23ce93f6-5e92-9e63-4fc7-8cf3f27f9c35>
My name is <INSTRUCTOR_NAME> and I will be your instructor for today's class.
Please hold all questions until the end of the lecture, at which time, I will be glad to answer any that you may have.
There will be an exam at the conclusion of the lecture.
You may use your class notes, but please refrain from any talking during the exam.
If you have any questions at that time, please IM the instructor
<TEXTURE:cfe35653-8b5e-f60c-d67f-eda31f52f539>
Welcome to the Command Division in SDQ!
Our class today is DIP-106 / Introduction to Klingon
*Takes a deep breath and proceeds*
<TEXTURE:6711fd45-8484-de28-38b3-4a48cd71e6f0>
The Klingon Empire was founded some time in the 9th century by Kahless the Unforgettable.
Who performed many heroic feats including the unification of the Klingon people when he killed the tyrant Molor.
Kahless came to be revered in Klingon society to the point of near-deification, and many aspects of Klingon culture came to revolve around an emulation of Kahless' life.
The Klingon Homeworld is referred to by many names: Klinzhai, Kling, Klingon, or Qo'noS (pronounced Kronos).
This M-class planet is the second in the Klingon Star System. It is about 1.5 times the size of Earth.
On Qo'noS, there is little water, except for some saline lakes, which is why the climate is hot and the vegetation meager.
The biggest city on the planet is The First City (veng wa'DIch), the center of the Klingon Empire.
<TEXTURE:df303915-91fd-e1ee-1dd8-333b2cf70a7f>
Klingon Society:
Klingon society functions through a system of family reputation and honor.
Tradition is an integral part of their lives and breaking from observances is considered a grievous insult to society that is not forgotten easily:
bringing shame to the offender's name for several generations.
Klingon society is hierarchically organized.
Status is generally a matter of descent and relations, although it can occasionally be earned or improved through notable battles or victories.
Higher classes consist of the Major Houses or family lines, most of whom are quite wealthy and own vast lands guarded by armed forces that are loyal to their house.
Others have less influence and often enter into an alliance with the more powerful houses to be able to survive; they are often referred to a Minor Houses.
Bloodlines and relations are also taken very seriously by any true Klingon. Lines comprise of more than mere family members.
It is more like a network of mutual obligations and defense agreements.
Deeds done beyond living memory can indebt one family to another for generations, such is their emphasis on repaying debts.
In this way, there comes a time when the line is too massive to maintain, and some line-founders must split off to form a new name.
For a Klingon to join a family, it must be done according to the rite of R'uustal, after approval by the matriarch or patriarch of the family house.
Each House is usually led by the eldest male descendant of the first head of the house, however there is a growing acceptance of the oldest daughter becoming head of House under certain circumstances.
Although lower-class Klingons do not necessarily consider themselves members of a House, they have normally pledged allegiance to a particular House.
They usually work as servants or belong to the House's armed forces. If a Klingon behaves dishonorably, his shame reflects on the whole House.
Males traditionally dominated public life in the Empire, assuming the leading roles in politics and the military with only rare exceptions.
A notable exception to the prohibition of women serving on the High Council came when Azetbur became Chancellor of the High Council after her father, Gorkon, was assassinated in 2293.
Women, in turn, traditionally dominated the household and the management of the family's affairs.
Klingon women were treated as equals except in politics and matters of inheritance.
They were prohibited by law from serving in the High Council and cannot take control of their Houses unless they have the money and no male successors of the lineage.
Otherwise, Klingon women were expected to exhibit the same physical prowess and lust for blood and honor as the men.
<TEXTURE:ca91267b-d732-c4ec-51d8-50424bf1239b>
Genetics:
In the year 2154, the Klingons gained access to the genetic material of Human Augments and tried to adapt this genetic engineering to improve themselves.
The test subjects did gain increased strength and intelligence, but then their neural pathways started to degrade and they died in agony.
One of the subjects suffered from the Levodian flu, which was modified by the Augment DNA to become a fatal, airborne, mutagenic plague that spread rampantly among the Empire, from world to world.
In the first stage of this plague, Klingons lost the ridges on their foreheads and began to look more Human.
With the help of a Klingon scientist named Antaak, Dr. Phlox of the Earth starship Enterprise was able to formulate a cure that halted the genetic effects of the virus in the first stage.
This retained the changes in appearance along with some minor neural re-ordering.
The neural ordering caused changes in the emotional makeup of the Klingons. For example, the infected started to feel fear.
Even though the infected did not develop any stage-two characteristics, such as enhanced strength, speed, or endurance they did not die from it.
This left millions of Klingons changed. These alterations were even passed on to their children.
Klingons were apparently so embarrassed by the fallout from their failed attempt at genetic enhancement that they refused to discuss the incident with outsiders.
Due to the secrecy of the Klingon Empire, knowledge of the change became lost over time to the general population of the Federation.
By the 24th century, the reason for smooth forehead Klingons was not widely known outside the Empire, and questions were generally met with a brusque answer along the lines of "we don't discuss it with outsiders."
<TEXTURE:0603b7a8-5039-70d6-2ad0-5c6d701b1402>
Klingons are classified as "humanoid", since they roughly follow the designs and symmetry of the humanoid body form shared by most of the races in the Alpha Quadrant.
However, there are some differences.
The most striking characteristic of a Klingon's appearance is the sagittarian crest on their forehead.
Every Klingon forehead has its own unique pattern, much like a fingerprint, however certain similarities can be found within family lines.
The Klingons have a body structure that is partly exoskeleton, meaning their resistance to physical force is far greater than mere flesh, and they have a higher muscle mass ratio than most humans.
This system is especially suited to protecting the interior organs from damage caused by fighting.
Heavy chest plates, a heavily-armored back (including spinal cord), and a pronounced brow ridge (to protect the brain) are common features.
Klingons are capable of comparably greater physical strength and endurance than Terran humans.
The Klingon body incorporates multiple redundancies for nearly all vital bodily functions, such as an 8-chambered heart, 3 lungs and two livers.
This characteristic, known as brak'lul, gives Klingons enormous resiliency in battle.
Despite the considerable sophistication of Klingon technology, significant gaps exist in Klingon medical science,
in part due to cultural biases that injured warriors should be left to die or to carry out the Hegh'bat, a ritual suicide.
Klingons have no tear ducts. The blood of Imperial race Klingons is a lavender-colored fluid, while the various genetic fusions exhibit other colour characteristics.
The olfactory sense of a typical Klingon is typically very keen.
It is theorized that since the initial stages of the mating ritual involves much "sniffing" of the potential mate,
it is possible that this is an alternative way of identifying a Klingon's emotions or intent through their pheromones.
Klingon children matured far more quickly than Human children.
At the age of only one Earth year, a Klingon child had the appearance a Human child had at about four.
By the age of eight Earth years, a Klingon attained the maturity a Human did not reach until about age sixteen.
When Klingon children began growing into adults, they went through jak'tahla, a Klingon form of puberty.
Like other mammalian species, Klingon females were capable of lactation to breastfeed infants.
<TEXTURE:d3719ead-0351-0e9a-fabf-32e23780dc14>
Klingons tended to live for over 150 years, but even into advanced old age, they tended to still be strong enough for combat.
Klingon Rituals and Beliefs:
An integral part of tradition is the various rituals that mark milestones in a Klingon's life or the history of the Empire.
Most notable of the rites is the Rite of Succession, which a future leader of the Empire must complete with a valid Arbiter of Succession overseeing the proceedings.
Before the Rite can begin, there's another elaborate ceremony needed to confirm the death of the previous leader.
This is known as the Sonchi Ceremony. For individual Klingon warriors, they are expected to go through the Rite of Ascension to be recognized as a full adult.
<TEXTURE:dd2c17b1-3dcb-3a79-b2e3-fac5b02430c5>
The most famed and prestigious warriors receive the honour of induction into The Order of The Bat'leth.
This elite group has a long tradition, and the Chancellor himself will oversee the inauguration ceremony which normally takes place in the Hall of Warriors at Ty'Gokor.
This structure houses the bones of Klingon heroes and legends, honouring them with statues and stone tablets detailing their illustrious deeds.
In Klingon society, the death of a warrior is not mourned, especially a warrior who has died honourably, as in battle or the line of duty.
In such cases, the survivors celebrate the freeing of the spirit.
Although Klingons believe in an afterlife (traditionally Sto-Vo-Kor), but there is no burial ceremony.
They dispose the body in the most efficient means possible.
There is no equivalent to the devil in Klingon mythology, although a beast known as Fek'lhr is believed to guard the underworld of Gre'thor.
According to myth, ancient Klingon warriors slew their gods a millennium ago. They were apparently more trouble than they were worth.
Klingon tradition holds that "A Klingon is a man the day he can first hold a blade".
Another Klingon ritual is the R'uustai, or bonding ceremony, in which two individuals join families, becoming brothers and sisters.
Klingons believe that they have the instinctive ability to look an opponent in the eye and see the intent to kill.
Klingon tradition holds that a Klingon who dies by their own hand will not travel across the River of Blood to enter Sto-Vo-Kor.
If a Klingon warrior strikes another with the back of his hand, it is interpreted as a challenge to the death.
Klingon warriors speak proudly to each other - they do not whisper or keep their distance.
Standing far away and whispering are considered insults in Klingon society.
<TEXTURE:184ed78f-f75a-04f8-3972-796c5bd3abf3>
Klingon in Starfleet:
In 2364, Lieutenant junior grade Worf was assigned as a command division bridge officer on the USS Enterprise (NCC-1701-D), under the command of Captain Jean-Luc Picard.
Worf spent most of his first year on the Enterprise-D as a relief officer for the conn and other bridge stations.
Worf was permitted a variation from the Starfleet uniform dress code, and wore a Klingon warrior's sash, sometimes called a baldric by Humans, over his regular duty uniform.
Following the death of Natasha Yar at the hands of the Armus entity, Worf became acting security chief.
In 2365, Worf transferred to the operations division and officially became the Enterprise-D's chief tactical officer and security chief.
He was promoted to the rank of full lieutenant in 2366. After seven years of service aboard the starship, Worf rose in rank to lieutenant commander in 2371.
During these years of service, Worf's record was marred by a single reprimand, earned when he killed Duras in an honor duel after the latter had Worf's mate, K'Ehleyr, killed.
Killing Duras directly affected the ascension of a new Klingon Chancellor after the death of K'mpec.
While awaiting reassignment following the destruction of the Enterprise, Worf took an extended leave of absence from Starfleet to evaluate his future.
He returned his son to Earth to live with the Rozhenkos while he himself took refuge on Boreth.
<TEXTURE:a029fa04-4732-da54-96b8-5b40ed2bbad0>
Meanwhile, on the other side of the Federation, Captain Benjamin Sisko and the crew of Deep Space 9 were having trouble keeping order with the Klingons present at the station.
When the treaty with the Klingon Empire was threatened during the Klingons' invasion of Cardassia in 2372,
Sisko stated, "Curzon told me once that in the long run, the only people who can really handle Klingons are Klingons."
It was at this time he requested Worf's help.
In 2373, Worf was ordered to take the USS Defiant and join the fleet of ships set to intercept a Borg cube in Sector 001 on a course for Earth.
Along with the USS Bozeman and USS Lexington, the Defiant was heavily damaged by the cube and Worf was considering a kamikaze attack, when the USS Enterprise-E came to Worf's rescue.
The Enterprise-E took on board the survivors of the Defiant, including Worf.
Reunited with his old crewmates, Worf assisted in destroying the cube with the tactical information divulged by Picard.
After it was destroyed, Worf discovered that a sphere was traveling back in time to 2063, in an attempt to prevent First Contact between Humans and Vulcans.
After destroying the Borg sphere, Worf successfully helped destroy the Enterprise's deflector dish, which the Borg were turning into an interplexing beacon, and prevent them from changing history.
<TEXTURE:823ad0ec-7b85-a25c-5f4e-121767b5a3f6>
Klingon Alliance:
The Treaty of Alliance (also known as the Klingon Alliance) was the official agreement that established the alliance between the United Federation of Planets and the Klingon Empire.
Vulcan ambassador Sarek was one of the key figures behind the negotiations that created the alliance, and his son, ambassador Spock, was the one who proposed the alliance.
The Treaty was regarded with controversy when first suggested, but later proved to be a cornerstone for peace in the Alpha Quadrant.
The Federation-Klingon alliance represented a fundamental shift in the balance of power in the Alpha and Beta Quadrants, as the two former enemies united.
According to the treaty's terms, each side could request the other's assistance in fighting against its enemies.
This clause, in part, forced the Romulan Star Empire to the sidelines, unable to compete against the combined forces of the Federation and the Klingons.
As a result, the Romulans devoted considerable resources towards trying to break up the alliance, albeit without success.
By contrast, in 2372 the Dominion was able to break the alliance by manipulating the Klingon Empire into an unprovoked invasion of the Cardassian Union, an action condemned by the Federation.
The alliance was resumed the following year, after the Dominion joined the Cardassians' war against the Klingons.
The Klingons continue to be allies to the Federation, and
continue to play an integral role in Starfleet and the protection of the Gamma Quadrant
This concludes our lecture for today.
<TEXTURE:23ce93f6-5e92-9e63-4fc7-8cf3f27f9c35>
<LIGHTS_ON>
Are there any questions?
*Looks around the room*
You may now start your test by activating the computer terminal in front of you.
You will need to score 80% or better to pass this exam.
If you do happen to fail the class you can request a written exam from the Academy Commandant.
If you would like a copy of this class for further reference you can request  one from the Academy Commandant.
All students will need to record the grade given on their weekly report. Instructors will record the grade in the gradebook.
Good luck
