<DESC:Warp Drive Basics>
*Dims the lights and smiles at each cadet*
<LIGHTS_OFF>
<SOUND:581a69d3-37ea-3d17-766f-68cacafb8636>
Greetings and welcome to the Starfleet Delta Quadrant Academy!
<TEXTURE:23ce93f6-5e92-9e63-4fc7-8cf3f27f9c35>
My name is <INSTRUCTOR_NAME> and I will be your instructor for today's class.
Please hold all questions until the end of the lecture, at which time, I will be glad to answer any that you may have.
There will be an exam at the conclusion of the lecture.
You may use your class notes, but please refrain from any talking during the exam.
If you have any questions at that time, please IM the instructor
<TEXTURE:4b45fb27-cf2e-1914-f513-bffddb952d46>
Welcome to the Engineering Division in SDQ!
Our class today is ENG-103 Warp Drive Basics
*Takes a deep breath and proceeds*
A simple explanation of Warp
<TEXTURE:7c184459-885f-daac-b71a-aade588d836a>
1. The Warp-Drive
Ancient propulsion systems all over the galaxy works at the basics of the technology of burning fossil fuel.
With the controlled burn of this fuel it is possible to accelerate a vessel.
But the speed/carrying-capacity ratio, the limited of the fossil source and the cost for the environment are factors that leads all civilizations on their way in searching for a better system.
This propulsion drives pushes the vessel forward by the recoil of controlled explosions.
To travel at higher speed this system need low mass and a larger storage of fuel.
The Warp-Drive works completely different.
Imagine a tightened blanket.
Then place a marble at the middle of the blanket.
If you now make a little crater in front of the marble and a little wave behind it, the marble will move, and of course fall in the crater.
But if you move the crater and the wave with the same speed and keep the same distance you can move the marble across the blanket.
In simple words, that is what the Warp-Drive does.
The blanket is the space, or marble is a ship.
But how we get a wave and a crater on the space.
<TEXTURE:0ad09fc6-07a5-2f89-7ad0-4f6e76ea1435>
The Warp-Drive generates an energy-field, so called Warp Field, which starts from the warp coils in the nacelles.
This field is a Space/Time Bubble. It squeezes the subspace in front of our ship and stretches it behind.
The field moves on the border between subspace and space and within the field we have our own "local" Universe with our known normal physical oder.
The field manipulate the space/time continuum and make it possible to move the object within faster than light.
The space inside the field has no time-dilatation.
To produce enough energy for generate such a field, the Federation use the matter/antimatter technology in addition with the dilithium to generate Warp Plasma.
2. The weakness of the Warp-Drive
2.1 Maneuvering
The Warp-Drive reacts sensible against changes in the space/time continuum like gravitation fields produce.
When calculating a trajectory the gravity that are generated by stellar objects such as stars or black holes  must be considered.
Within a planetary system the Warp-Drive should not be used or only use in case of an emergency or at a Lagrange Point.
Under Warpspeed you should hold a linear course, because changes of course under Warp-Speed can damage the hull.
Big changes of course should be made under Impulse-Speed.
But by making a change of the output parameters of the different Warp Nacelles we can steer the ship,
and can make minor changes in the direction of the warp bubble and movement is also possible forward and backward.
Inside the Warp Field a ship can make a complete turn and with a good crew it can change the movement direction in a short-time.
The timing of this is most important for such maneuvers to prevent an early collapse of the Warp Field and a hull breach,
so it is only recommended under emergency situations.
2.2 Traceability
A ship at warp is easily traceable by its Warp Signature on long range.
In addition, a warp drive, leaving residues usually in the form of an ion gauge and a warp trail, which can be traced back the route of the spaceship.
This Ion-Trace, however, can be mask, for example by magnetron impulses.
At short range the warp drive leaves a so-called "wake" in form of subspace swirls.
A ship that flies accidentally through such a swirl can feel little shockwaves.
2.3 Health
The journey at Warp speed can lead to space sickness for some individuals, whose symptoms may be mild nausea and dizziness.
2.4 Interaction with other systems and technologies
Phaser cannons can be use at Warp.
Launching Escape Pods is not possible.
The Pods will change the mass of the ship within the field and can bring it to accidentally collapse.
Not to mention without inertial dampers the sudden drop from warp to sunlight would most likely kill any person inside the escape pod
The use of the transporter at Warp Speed is restricted.
The ship has to fly with the same warp factor like the target to minimize distortions of the transporter beam.
The use of a tractor beam is possible at warp to tow another spacecraft.
To initiating such a procedure both vessels must be at the same warp-factor, usually done by extending your warp field around the other ship,
and the braking maneuvers must be done as slowly as possible.
If you are attempting to use the tractor beam to slow down or capture another ship at warp speeds.
This maneuver is not safe and brings the potential risk of a hull breach on both vessels.
Heavy damage to Hull can possibly influence the warp field.
On the other hand, an already damaged hull can be damaged more when jumping to warp speed or even destroyed.
3. Parts of the Warp-Drive and Energy Systems
<TEXTURE:f73a3ddf-e80e-bddd-f4ce-d77f77ea545d>
3.1 The Warp Core
The Warp Core is the main-part of the Warp-Drive.
It delivers the large amount of energy for the Warp Field,
but also it is the main energy source for the whole ship.
Federation Ships produce these energy in the reaction-chamber of the Warp Core.
Matter and Antimatter were shoot from the injector in the Chamber and react together.
We use for the reaction deuterium and anti-deuterium.
The Dilithium Crystals are needed to control the reaction.
The outcome of this reaction is Warp Plasma.
The Warp Plasma will be lead to the Nacelles.
A small amount come to the EPS for the other Ship-Systems.
The Warp Plasma is million of degree hot.
So it will lead over magnetic-fields.
Inside the Warp Core we also found a coolant-system.
3.2. Electro-Plasma-Supply System (EPS)
The EPS brings the energetic plasma to the different systems on a starship.
<TEXTURE:5284ee29-6381-eebe-e87d-a387042e4665>
3.3 Warp Nacelles
Within the Warp Nacelles we found the Warp Coil.
The Warp Coil build the Warp Field.
All Federation Ships have Bussard-Collectors in front of the Warp Nacelles.
The Bussard-Collectors collects Deuterium for the Drive.
Some cultures use different systems, like the Vulcan's, use a Warp Ring instead of the minimum of two Warp Nacelles.
3.4 Other Systems are:
- Plasma-Coolant
- Plasma-Reflux System
- Subspace Field Processor
- Subspace Field Coil
- Warp matrix flux capacitor
- Warp Coppler
<TEXTURE:f8ffb03d-2066-1f1e-21aa-39357561b7a1>
4. The Warp Field
The Warp-Drive generates an energy-field, so called Warp Field, which starts from the warp coils in the nacelles.
This field is a Space/Time Bubble. It jolt the subspace in front of our ship and stretch it behind.
The field moves on the border between subspace and space and within the field we have our own "local" Universe with our known normal physical oder.
The field manipulate the space/time continuum and make it possible to move the object within faster than light.
The space inside the field has no time-dilatation.
The shape of the field can be manipulated. So it is possible to take more than one ship into one field.
One special effect is that a low energetic Warp Field can protect a Ship against Gravitation waves like Quantum-singularity produce.
Another special-effect of a Warp Field is that it reduce the mass of an object.
So it is possible to reduce the Mass of a moon or asteroid to change the gravity of the object.
<TEXTURE:f8ffb03d-2066-1f1e-21aa-39357561b7a1>
We also known three different kinds of special Warp Fields
- Symmetrically Warp Fields
- Inverse Spread Spectrum Warp Field
- Reverse Warp Field (useful to anchor a ship in the Space/Time Continuum
There are some regions in space where it is not possible to create a stable Warp Field.
- within a Tyken's-Rift
- if the ship stranded at a subspace-sandbank
- in Chaos Space
- inside a neutron wavefront
<TEXTURE:d6cb399e-b3f6-71e9-daad-721c1b72ca4a>
5. Warp Factor
The Warp factor is the term for measuring warp speed.  After warp one, faster-than-light travel began.
Warp        	Speed
1              	Lightspeed
2              	10x Lightspeed
3              	39x Lightspeed
4              	102x Lightspeed
5              	213x Lightspeed
6              	392x Lightspeed
7               	656x Lightspeed
8              	1024x Lightspeed
9              	1516x Lightspeed
9,9          	3053x Lightspeed
9,99        	7912x Lightspeed
9,9999  	199516x Lightspeed
10             	endless Speed
Endless Speed means that we are at all places in the universe at the same time.
The Standard cruising speed of most Starfleet ships is warp 5.
5. Alternatives
A possible alternative for cargo transport, can be the concept of soliton wave, which can bring the objects without its own warp engines to warp speed.
The Borg use a faster version of propulsion:
The Transwarp Drive.
This uses coils to generate a Transwarp Channel . Just one of them is enough to generate a field, and they are much smaller.
Additionally, the Borg have a huge network of static Transwarp Channel that runs through almost the entire galaxy.
Transwarp Channel  are like tubes that run through the Subspace and similarly shorten like a warp drive, the distances between two points.
These channels are always active and can be opened with a coded Tachyon Impulse.
Also known is the quantum slipstream drive, and the Coaxial Warp Drive.
This concludes our lecture for today.
<TEXTURE:23ce93f6-5e92-9e63-4fc7-8cf3f27f9c35>
<LIGHTS_ON>
Are there any questions?
*Looks around the room*
You may now start your test by activating the computer terminal in front of you.
You will need to score 80% or better to pass this exam.
If you do happen to fail the class you can request a written exam from the Academy Commandant.
If you would like a copy of this class for further reference you can request one from the Academy Commandant.
All students will need to record the grade given on their weekly report. Instructors will record the grade in the gradebook.
Good luck
