<DESC:History and Sceince of Warp Drive>
<LIGHTS_OFF>
<SOUND:581a69d3-37ea-3d17-766f-68cacafb8636>
Greetings and welcome to the Starfleet Delta Quadrant Academy!
<TEXTURE:23ce93f6-5e92-9e63-4fc7-8cf3f27f9c35>
My name is <INSTRUCTOR_NAME> and I will be your instructor for today's class.
Please hold all questions until the end of the lecture, at which time, I will be glad to answer any that you may have.
There will be an exam at the conclusion of the lecture.
You may use your class notes, but please refrain from any talking during the exam.
If you have any questions at that time, please IM the instructor
<TEXTURE:4b45fb27-cf2e-1914-f513-bffddb952d46>
Welcome to the Engineering Division in SDQ!
Our class today is ENG-101 / History and Science of Warp Drive
*Takes a deep breath and proceeds*
For centuries, humanity has sought to improve its ability to travel.
Never content where we are, one of humanity's most endearing qualities is that we are constantly looking, searching, exploring, and expanding our knowledge.
At first, travel speed was restricted only by available power.
Walking and running can only go so fast. From walking, we graduated to taming animals, and riding horses.
We harnessed the horses to wheeled machines, then created engines in the machines to power them ever faster.
<TEXTURE:18fcb078-a7ee-9564-4779-e940d224f8e7>
Once humanity conquered aerodynamics and put these machines in the air, we encountered our first barrier: the speed of sound.
It turns out that an object can only travel so fast, before the compression waves created in the air (which are heard as sound) become a literal barrier that is difficult to penetrate.
The sound barrier was penetrated through new and innovative designs in airfoils, which enabled faster-than-sound travel with relative ease. However, soon a new barrier was encountered.
<TEXTURE:29595c66-10a4-460f-915c-853a0d1ef5d>
In 1917, Albert Einstein published a theory of special relativity which described the universe, space-time, and their interrelation.
Included in this theory were several problems for space travel. First, Einstein predicted that travel faster than light was impossible.
Considering that the nearest star system to Earth, Alpha Centauri, is over 4 light-years away, it would mean that even this short out-and-back trip would take a minimum of nine years.
Secondly, special relativity states that when traveling with any appreciable speed, time slows down, or dilates.
This would mean that for a simple trip to a neighboring star system, you might take this ten-year journey and come back to find all your loved ones, even children and grandchildren, had already died of old age.
Both of these problems would make creating a space empire or federation nearly impossible,
and would need to be overcome before the Federation could ever be what it is today.
Enter Warp theory.
WARP THEORY
<TEXTURE:902e4b75-c898-3c48-d7e9-5db13ee4d7cc>
Nothing in space-time can travel faster than light. Not a bullet, not a photon, and certainly not a starship.
Since nothing can travel faster than light in space-time, then to travel faster than light we would need to operate outside of normal space-time.
In 2063, Zefram Cochrane became the first human to make a successful Warp flight. A passing Vulcan science ship observed the jump into warp, and initiated first contact with us.
It was the Vulcan policy to not initiate first contact with any species that has not achieved Warp drive capability, to allow them to evolve at their own pace.
This was adopted into Starfleet as General Order #1: the Prime Directive. Thus, Warp-capability is generally the measure we use to determine whether or not a culture is ready for alien interaction.
Any culture that has not achieved this is off-limits.
A Warp drive is completely different from other forms of engines: it is why modern starships will have at least three different forms of propulsion: Warp drive, impulse drive, and thrusters.
Impulse drive is conventional power from large-scale atomic-fusion rockets, usually behind the ship as they primarily provide forward thrust.
Thrusters are smaller rockets that are on all sides of the ship, and require less power.
These are primarily used for intricate maneuvers into tight spaces, like a Galaxy-class starship pulling into a dry-dock.
However, maneuvering thrusters aren't powerful enough to provide any appreciable speed, nor to maintain that speed for any length of time.
<TEXTURE:f8ffb03d-2066-1f1e-21aa-39357561b7a1>
Warp drive operates by creating a bubble around the starship, then propelling the bubble. The bubble is just outside of normal space, which is also known as "subspace."
This is not to be confused with a wormhole, which crosses between planes of normal space.
Subspace, like a wormhole, is a fourth-dimensional concept where the starship is slightly out of normal space, but still at the same three-dimensional coordinates where it just was.
In other words, it creates a bubble in the fabric of spacetime itself. If that's a little too much for you, don't worry -- that's not on the exam.
Also of interest, though, is that subspace weapons operate on this same principle, but they do unspeakable damage to the space-time fabric: damage which our current science has yet to fully understand.
The Khitomer Accords and multiple other treaties have banned all subspace weapons. Conventional weaponry is damaging enough.
What you need to know about Warp drive is this: it is this subspace bubble that is propelled through space.
Since this subspace bubble is outside of normal space-time, it itself can be propelled at a higher velocity than is otherwise possible.
Some people think of it in this fashion: The starship doesn't move, it creates a bubble and pulls the rest of the universe around itself.
That's not entirely accurate, but it is one way of thinking about how Warp drive works. Completely different from any other form of propulsion out there.
WARP FACTORS
<TEXTURE:d6cb399e-b3f6-71e9-daad-721c1b72ca4a>
In the early days of warp travel, warp speeds were simply the speed of light cubed, or to the third power.
In other words, Warp 2 was calculated as 2X2X2, or 2^3 (two to the third power), which is eight.
Warp 2 was eight times the speed of light. Likewise, warp 3 was 27 times the speed of light (3x3x3), and warp 10 was 1000 times the speed of light. James T. Kirk was once pulled along at warp 14.1.
The modern Warp scale has been reconfigured to recognize nine warp "factors" -- or, plateaus at which Warp travel requires significantly less power than otherwise predicted.
This has enabled current Warp systems to be more efficient. Included in the recalibration, however, was the notion of Warp 10 being "infinite."
Warp 1 remained the same: travel at the speed of light.
This is the first warp factor. Travel at this speed is excruciatingly slow by modern standards.
At this speed, it would take 4.5 years to travel from Earth to Alpha Centauri.
For comparison, let's look at Warp 9.
Warp 9 is travel at 1,516 times the speed of light -- or, 1.63 trillion kilometers per hour.
Beyond Warp 9, the power required for travel is extreme, as are the demands placed on all ship's systems and resources.
At this speed, a starship would complete a 20-light-year trip in only five days.
Very useful for warping into a crisis, but not generally considered good practice, as it consumes resources at an alarming pace and wears on starship parts much faster than necessary.
Also, at higher Warp speeds, long-range sensors have a harder time functioning, as the distortion of subspace from normal space also becomes more pronounced.
One could drop out of Warp 9 and encounter an entire Borg fleet that they weren't expecting. In short, Warp 9 is generally used in emergencies only.
Warp factors of 5-7 tend to be the most used Warp factors, as they represent a fair compromise between speed and resource consumption.
Lower speeds, such as Warp 3 or 4, are often used by science vessels, or exploratory vessels, or vessels with science mission objectives.
The Captain usually determines the appropriate Warp factor, balancing the needs of all departments: from scientific and tactical observations, to resource management, and engineering concerns.
WARP SPEED LIMIT
<TEXTURE:cbe512a8-2176-7b11-1b59-74e0d0c4e3dc>
In the 2360s, a damaging effect on space-time was discovered at speeds above Warp 5.
This was a crisis, as the very fabric of space-time had been observed deteriorating from centuries of abuse.
As a stopgap measure, a Warp 5 speed limit was placed on all Starfleet vessels.
However, this crippled the fleet: since other starships could not be counted on for assistance, the fleet had to maintain a higher state of readiness in deployment.
The same studies that provoked the finding of the defect and the Warp 5 speed limit also shed light on a cure.
For this reason, the new Intrepid-class of starships incorporated as a main feature folding warp nacelles.
These enabled the starship to reconfigure its warp field geometry, and prevent this damage to the space-time fabric.
Subsequent innovations rendered these folding nacelles obsolete; the rest of Starfleet has been retrofitted to be able to reconfigure their Warp field geometry.
This concludes our lecture for today.
<TEXTURE:23ce93f6-5e92-9e63-4fc7-8cf3f27f9c35>
<LIGHTS_ON>
Are there any questions?
*Looks around the room*
You may now start your test by activating the computer terminal in front of you.
You will need to score 80% or better to pass this exam.
If you do happen to fail the class you can request a written exam from the Academy Commandant.
If you would like a copy of this class for further reference you can request one from the Academy Commandant.
All students will need to record the grade given on their weekly report. Instructors will record the grade in the gradebook.
Good luck
