<DESC:Introduction to I.G.>
*Dims the lights and smiles at each cadet*
<LIGHTS_OFF>
<SOUND:581a69d3-37ea-3d17-766f-68cacafb8636>
Greetings and welcome to the Starfleet Delta Quadrant Academy!
<TEXTURE:23ce93f6-5e92-9e63-4fc7-8cf3f27f9c35>
My name is <INSTRUCTOR_NAME> and I will be your instructor for today's class.
Please hold all questions until the end of the lecture, at which time, I will be glad to answer any that you may have.
There will be an exam at the conclusion of the lecture.
You may use your class notes, but please refrain from any talking during the exam.
If you have any questions at that time, please IM the instructor
<TEXTURE:cb1fed43-d5cd-14df-d2e0-9b6cbce51574>
Welcome to the Security Division in SDQ!
Our class today is SEC-201 / Introduction to I.G.
*Takes a deep breath and proceeds*
The Inspector General (IG) is an investigator charged with examining the actions of a government agency or organization, such as Starfleet or the Federation.
Their job is to look for the possibility of misconduct, fraud, or criminal activity by individuals.
The IG, as a general auditor, ensures contractors are operating in compliance with generally established policies of the Federation.
The position of IG is held by the senior member of the IG Corps assigned to a specific command.
The Inspector General of Starfleet is the senior member of the IG Corps.  There is an Office of the Inspector General (OIG) at the fleet, planetary, and local levels.
The Starfleet Inspector General in the Gamma Quadrant is a part of the Judge Advocate General's Branch.
He/she may appoint a Deputy SFIG to assist with running the Office
and, in addition, appoint Associate IGs to oversee such departments as Inspections, Investigations/Compliance, or Assistance.
The Inspections department conductions inspections of the different elements of UFGQ to ensure they are operating efficiently.
These inspections may be regularly scheduled, at the direction of the Commander, Starfleet, or at the request of the element.
Investigations/Compliance department conducts investigations to determine if criminal behavior, malfeasance, or violations of policy exist.
These investigations may be initiated by a complaint or at the direction of the Command.
The IG can in its investigations recommend a Court Martial be convened, issue Warrants or serve subpoena as necessary.
The Assistance department provides help to those who are having trouble with another member of the fleet, an office or officer of the fleet, or a procedure.
All IGs will serve in each of these departments during their tenure in the IG Corps.
Any officer may be detailed as an IG for a temporary basis.
This concludes our lecture for today.
<TEXTURE:23ce93f6-5e92-9e63-4fc7-8cf3f27f9c35>
<LIGHTS_ON>
Are there any questions?
*Looks around the room*
You may now start your test by activating the computer terminal in front of you.
You will need to score 80% or better to pass this exam.
If you do happen to fail the class you can request a written exam from the Academy Commandant.
If you would like a copy of this class for further reference you can request one from the Academy Commandant.
All students will need to record the grade given on their weekly report. Instructors will record the grade in the gradebook.
Good luck
