<DESC:Introduction to J.A.G.>
*Dims the lights and smiles at each cadet*
<LIGHTS_OFF>
<SOUND:581a69d3-37ea-3d17-766f-68cacafb8636>
Greetings and welcome to the Starfleet Delta Quadrant Academy!
<TEXTURE:23ce93f6-5e92-9e63-4fc7-8cf3f27f9c35>
My name is <INSTRUCTOR_NAME> and I will be your instructor for today's class.
Please hold all questions until the end of the lecture, at which time, I will be glad to answer any that you may have.
There will be an exam at the conclusion of the lecture.
You may use your class notes, but please refrain from any talking during the exam.
If you have any questions at that time, please IM the instructor
<TEXTURE:cb1fed43-d5cd-14df-d2e0-9b6cbce51574>
Welcome to the Security Division in SDQ!
Our class today is SEC-200 / Introduction to J.A.G.
<TEXTURE:63823281-4122-d7f6-1c2c-06a7ba1b8f83>
*Takes a deep breath and proceeds*
The United Federation of Plants in the Gamma Quadrant or SDQ is government by the Federation Charter and the local charter.  Starfleet is further governed by the UCMJ.
The Starfleet Judge Advocate General (JAG) Branch is the branch charged with overseeing legal matters within Starfleet.
A Judge Advocate within Starfleet is an officer that oversees legal matters concerning Starfleet personnel.
Legal counsel within Starfleet report into the senior JAG or SFJAG.
At SDQ the JAG corps falls under the banner of the security division.
While Security oversees JAG, an officer may work independently if necessary.
A Security officer may be in command over a JAG officer,
but that officer can not impede or interfere with a JAG investigation.
In some cases a JAG officer may report directly to the admiralty or counsel.
The Judge Advocate General of Starfleet is the flag rank officer who oversees the JAG corps, and is a member of Starfleet Command.
During the 2260s, the JAG Office was part of Starfleet's Operations division. By the 2350s it had moved under the Command division.
Currently in SDQ it is a sub-branch under Security Division reporting to the Commander, Starfleet.
Judge Advocates serve primarily as legal advisors to the command to which they are assigned. In this function, they can also serve as the personal legal advisor to their commander.
Their advice may cover a wide range of issues dealing with administrative law, government contracting, civilian and military personnel law,
law of war and international relations, environmental law, etc.
Judge Advocates may serve as military judges, prosecutors, defense counsel, assistance officers.
As military judges they tend to preside over court martials that include a jury of the accused peers; or the legal team member on a board of inquiry.
As prosecutors they are charged with investigation of crimes along with Starfleet law enforcement or Security.
As defense counsel, they are charged with advocating the accused side during a court martial.  As an assistance officer they provide advice to common members of the fleet.
A career as a Starfleet JAG officer is rewarding as you become the commands keeper of ethics.
Your integrity is expected to be beyond reproach and you adhere to the highest standards of Starfleet.
All JAG Officers will serve in all of these positions at least once in their career.
Organization of the JAG Branch.
The senior member of the JAG Branch is the SFJAG.  He answers to the Commander of Starfleet.
If the size of the Branch permits he may appoint a Deputy SFJAG.
Under he/she may assign a Associate JAG(s) to oversee the different departments.  They are: Prosecution, Admin Law, Defense, and Assistance.
Each base and ship will have detailed, for a period of time, a Ship or Base Judge Advocate, depending on personnel strength.
That person will be over all junior JAG personnel on that base or ship.
Requirements to be a JAG
- must complete course prescribed in the College of Law
- meet the requirements to be a Starfleet Officer
- be recommended by Commanding Officer and accepted by the Judge Advocate General
Enlisted Positions
Enlisted positions in the JAG Corps include,
Legal Specialist
Legal NCO
Legal Administrator.
Special skills include court reporter.
This concludes our lecture for today.
<TEXTURE:23ce93f6-5e92-9e63-4fc7-8cf3f27f9c35>
<LIGHTS_ON>
Are there any questions?
*Looks around the room*
You may now start your test by activating the computer terminal in front of you.
You will need to score 80% or better to pass this exam.
If you do happen to fail the class you can request a written exam from the Academy Commandant.
If you would like a copy of this class for further reference you can request one from the Academy Commandant.
All students will need to record the grade given on their weekly report. Instructors will record the grade in the gradebook.
Good luck
