<DESC:Medical Ethics>
*Dims the lights and smiles at each cadet*
<LIGHTS_OFF>
<SOUND:581a69d3-37ea-3d17-766f-68cacafb8636>
Greetings and welcome to the Starfleet Delta Quadrant Academy!
<TEXTURE:23ce93f6-5e92-9e63-4fc7-8cf3f27f9c35>
My name is <INSTRUCTOR_NAME> and I will be your instructor for today's class.
Please hold all questions until the end of the lecture, at which time, I will be glad to answer any that you may have.
There will be an exam at the conclusion of the lecture.
You may use your class notes, but please refrain from any talking during the exam.
If you have any questions at that time, please IM the instructor
<TEXTURE:d6894c4d-fd9d-cf1e-cd09-6a0288eed6da>
Welcome to the Medical/Science Division in SDQ!
Our class today is MS-104 / Medical Ethics
*Takes a deep breath and proceeds*
Your goal here is to strive to be the best that you can be, whether you are a doctor, Nurse, Counselor or Researcher.
You must want to be the best, and it may not always be easy, but together we will make it fun.
<TEXTURE:4b772325-eac0-79ff-4d54-02c8572867ef>
Medical Ethics are basic principles of medical personnel's actions during his/her professional involvement.
It is the foundation of what we in the medical profession must understand and live by.
You must also understand that any intervention you do, may do harm.
In some instances, it may be better to do nothing.
We live by the motto "harm none".
You must do what is in the patient's best interest.
*Steps around the podium and perches on an empty desk*
However, you must also respect the patient's right to refuse treatment.
All sentient beings have this right.
We, as medical professionals, must respect this right, even if it goes against our feelings or beliefs.
A patient must be fully informed about, and understand, the possible benefits and risks of treatment.
When they agree to treatment under these circumstances it is known as "Informed Consent"
This is critical, as it is outlined in the Patient Bill of Rights.
A Patient's Bill of Rights is a statement of the rights to which patients are entitled as recipients of medical care.
A few key points of this bill are as follows:
a) You have the right to accurate and easily-understood information about your health plan,
health care professionals, and health care facilities.
If you speak another language, have a physical or mental disability, or just don't understand something,
help should be given so you can make informed healthcare decisions.
b) You have the right to know your treatment options and take part in decisions about your care.
Parents, guardians, family members, or others that you choose can speak for you if you cannot make your own decisions.
c) You have a right to considerate, respectful care from your doctors, health plan representatives,
and other health care providers that do not discriminate against you.
As a medical officer, we must know these rights and abide by them.
It is our responsibility to treat our patients with the utmost respect and professionalism.
Regardless of gender and species.
In UFGQ, training is key.
Training should continue throughout your medical career.
Whether it be through classes in the academy, or learning from your fellow officers.
The CMO and XMO are always happy and willing to provide training to anyone that wants to further their medical career.
That is how we provide the best care possible to our patients.
If you have an idea for a class, we would love to hear it and will consider adding it to our curriculum.
This concludes our lecture for today.
<TEXTURE:23ce93f6-5e92-9e63-4fc7-8cf3f27f9c35>
<LIGHTS_ON>
Are there any questions?
*Looks around the room*
You may now start your test by activating the computer terminal in front of you.
You will need to score 80% or better to pass this exam.
If you do happen to fail the class you can request a written exam from the Academy Commandant.
If you would like a copy of this class for further reference you can request one from the Academy Commandant.
All students will need to record the grade given on their weekly report. Instructors will record the grade in the gradebook.
Good luck!
