<DESC:Psychology>
*Dims the lights and smiles at each cadet*
<LIGHTS_OFF>
<SOUND:581a69d3-37ea-3d17-766f-68cacafb8636>
Greetings and welcome to the Starfleet Delta Quadrant Academy!
<TEXTURE:23ce93f6-5e92-9e63-4fc7-8cf3f27f9c35>
My name is <INSTRUCTOR_NAME> and I will be your instructor for today's class.
Please hold all questions until the end of the lecture, at which time, I will be glad to answer any that you may have.
There will be an exam at the conclusion of the lecture.
You may use your class notes, but please refrain from any talking during the exam.
If you have any questions at that time, please IM the instructor
<TEXTURE:d6894c4d-fd9d-cf1e-cd09-6a0288eed6da>
Welcome to the Medical/Science Division in SDQ!
Our class today is MSI-106 / Psychology
*Takes a deep breath and proceeds*
What is Psychology
<TEXTURE:715c7ec5-d470-a6b9-70f7-81b8fca54ea5>
Psychology is the study of cognitions, emotions, and behavior.
Psychologists are involved in a variety of tasks.
Many spend their careers designing and performing research to better understand how people behave in specific situations, how and why we think the way we do,
and how emotions develop and what impact they have on our interactions with others.
These are the research psychologists who often work in research organizations or universities.
Industrial-organizational psychologists work with businesses and organizations to help them become more productive, effective,
and efficient, and to assist them in working with their employees and their customers.
Practitioners, typically counseling and clinical psychologists, work with individuals, couples, families, and small groups to help them feel less depressed,
less anxious, become more productive or motivated, and overcome issues which prevent them from living up to their potential.
The study of psychology has five basic goals:
<TEXTURE:4a9b0b96-a926-3336-22d4-183449afa947>
1. Describe – The first goal is to observe behavior and describe, often in minute detail, what was observed as objectively as possible
2. Explain – While descriptions come from observable data, psychologists must go beyond what is obvious and explain their observations. In other words, why did the subject do what he or she did?
3. Predict – Once we know what happens, and why it happens, we can begin to speculate what will happen in the future.
There’s an old saying, which very often holds true: "the best predictor of future behavior is past behavior."
4. Control – Once we know what happens, why it happens and what is likely to happen in the future, we can excerpt control over it.
In other words, if we know you choose abusive partners because your father was abusive, we can assume you will choose another abusive partner,
and can therefore intervene to change this negative behavior.
5. Improve – Not only do psychologists attempt to control behavior, they want to do so in a positive manner, they want to improve a person’s life, not make it worse.
This is not always the case, but it should always be the intention.
<TEXTURE:6cb11752-6a54-ac63-c30b-c24939184f41>
Psychology is both an applied and academic field that studies the human mind and behavior.
Research in psychology seeks to understand and explain thought, emotion and behavior.
Applications of psychology include mental health treatment, performance enhancement, self-help, ergonomics and many other areas affecting health and daily life.
While psychology has its roots in ancient philosophy, it wasn't until the 1879 founding of the first psychology lab that the discipline emerged as a science separate from philosophy and physiology.
Psychology evolved out of both philosophy and biology. Such discussions of the two subjects date as far back as the early Greek thinkers such as Aristotle and Socrates.
The word psychology is derived from the Greek word psyche, meaning 'soul' or 'mind.'
Today, psychologists prefer to use more objective scientific methods to understand, explain, and predict human behavior.
Psychological studies are highly structured, beginning with a hypothesis that is then empirically tested.
Psychology has two major areas of focus: academic psychology and applied psychology.
Academic psychology focuses on the study of different sub-topics within psychology including personality psychology, social psychology and developmental psychology.
These psychologists conduct basic research that seeks to expand our theoretical knowledge, while other researchers conduct applied research that seeks to solve everyday problems.
Applied psychology focuses on the use of different psychological principles to solve real world problems.
Examples of applied areas of psychology include forensic psychology, ergonomics, and industrial-organizational psychology.
Many other psychologists work as therapists, helping people overcome mental, behavioral and emotional disorders.
Areas of Psychology
<TEXTURE:955c167e-a623-dc3c-db01-acda1951b9a0>
Psychology is a broad and diverse field. A number of different subfields and specialty areas have emerged.
The following are just some of the major areas of research and application within psychology:
Abnormal Psychology is the study of abnormal behavior and psychopathology.
This specialty area is focused on research and treatment of a variety of mental disorders and is linked to psychotherapy and clinical psychology.
Mental health professional typically utilize the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-IV) to diagnose mental disorders.
Clinical Psychology is focused on the assessment, diagnosis, and treatment of mental disorders.
Developmental Psychology is the branch of psychology that looks at human growth and development over the lifespan.
Theories often focus on the development of cognitive abilities, morality, social functioning, identity and other life areas.
Forensic Psychology is an applied field focused on using psychological research and principles in the legal and criminal justice system.
Social Psychology is a discipline that uses scientific methods to study social influence, social perception and social interaction.
Social psychology studies diverse subjects including group behavior, social perception, leadership, nonverbal behavior, conformity, aggression and prejudice.
Psychologists may work in a wide variety of settings, including schools, universities, hospitals, private clinics, government offices, corporations and small businesses.
Psychologists primarily work in one of two broad areas: research psychology or applied psychology.
Research psychologists investigate physical, emotional, social, cognitive and biological bases of human thought and behavior.
They often conduct experiments and may work at a colleges or universities, or they may be employed by a business or government office.
Applied psychologists use their knowledge of human behavior to solve real world problems or help people overcome psychological distress.
Applied psychologists may work directly with patients in a healthcare setting, such as in a hospital, mental health clinic, school or private practice.
Other applied psychologists may work in government, industry, business or nonprofit settings.
In addition to applying their knowledge of psychology directly, these professionals may also perform research, offer training, design products, create programs or provide psychological advice.
Psychologists employed in research settings often spend a great deal of time developing hypotheses and collecting data.
The exact research methods used by psychologists depend largely on the topic they are studying.
For example, some psychologists might perform research using lab experiments, while others might use naturalistic observation.
Other methods commonly used include administering questionnaires, clinical studies, surveys and interviews.
Psychologists employed in health care settings often spend a considerable amount of time working directly with clients.
This might involve conducting assessments of new patients, diagnosing mental disorders and performing psychotherapy.
Psychologists also frequently consult with other health professionals including doctors, nurses and other therapists.
Every year, millions of people are affected by disorders of the brain and nervous system including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's disease, strokes, and traumatic brain injuries.
These illnesses and injuries highlight the importance of the biological bases of behavior.
<TEXTURE:2f638e93-1710-4a37-9021-0dc3697b7eb6>
From the day we are born, we begin a process of learning that lasts throughout life.
Learning has been defined in a number of different ways, but many psychologists describe learning as a relatively permanent change in behavior as a result of experience.
The ability to create, store and access memories is an essential part of day-to-day life.
From remembering where you left your keys to learning a language to memorizing information for a class, your memory allows you to function and interact meaningfully with others.
<TEXTURE:0abac0b4-bb36-c797-08f0-8d8762ffbc07>
Much of what we know about human thought and behavior has emerged thanks to various psychology theories.
For example, behavioral theories demonstrated how conditioning can be used to learn new information and behaviors.
Psychology students typically spend a great deal of time studying these different theories.
Some theories have fallen out of favor, while others remain widely accepted, but all have contributed tremendously to our understanding of human thought and behavior.
<TEXTURE:7dd1b7c6-cb44-fc3f-01fd-457c405b6aae>
By learning more about these theories, you can gain a deeper and richer understanding of psychology's past, present and future.
Finally, always remember that as a Psychologist in the United Federation Gamma Quadrant, you are NOT to treat or diagnose RL (real-life) situations, only SL (Second Life) RP scenarios.
This concludes our lecture for today.
<TEXTURE:23ce93f6-5e92-9e63-4fc7-8cf3f27f9c35>
<LIGHTS_ON>
Are there any questions?
*Looks around the room*
You may now start your test by activating the computer terminal in front of you.
You will need to score 80% or better to pass this exam.
If you do happen to fail the class you can request a written exam from the Academy Commandant.
If you would like a copy of this class for further reference you can request one from the Academy Commandant.
All students will need to record the grade given on their weekly report. Instructors will record the grade in the gradebook.
Good luck
