<DESC:Anatomy>
*Dims the lights and smiles at each cadet*
<LIGHTS_OFF>
<SOUND:581a69d3-37ea-3d17-766f-68cacafb8636>
Greetings and welcome to the Starfleet Delta Quadrant Academy!
<TEXTURE:23ce93f6-5e92-9e63-4fc7-8cf3f27f9c35>
My name is <INSTRUCTOR_NAME> and I will be your instructor for today's class.
Please hold all questions until the end of the lecture, at which time, I will be glad to answer any that you may have.
There will be an exam at the conclusion of the lecture.
You may use your class notes, but please refrain from any talking during the exam.
If you have any questions at that time, please IM the instructor
<TEXTURE:d6894c4d-fd9d-cf1e-cd09-6a0288eed6da>
Welcome to the Medical/Science Division in SDQ!
Our class today is MSI-105 / Anatomy
*Takes a deep breath and proceeds*
The purpose of this class is to introduce you to humanoid anatomy.
This class is required for all medical personnel to help them better understand the humanoid form to properly treat your patient.
In order to explain your patient findings to other medical staff or to document your care and treatment of a patient,
a common understanding of topographical anatomy is required.
<TEXTURE:29efef13-e692-8634-2e69-917f67e509cd>
Planes of the Body:
- Midline draw an imaginary line drawn from the top of the head through the nose and umbilicus and down to the floor,
effectively dividing the body into right and left.
- bilateral includes both sides
- anterior consists of the front of the body
- posterior consists of the back of the body
Directional Terms:
- right and left are referred to as the right and left of the PATIENT'S body
- superficial is defined as close to or at the skin level.
- deep is farther into the body than skin level.
Superior and Inferior is used to describe the relationship of two structures
- superior is the portion of the body closer to the head
- inferior is the portion of the body closer to the feet
example: the knee is superior to the ankle
Lateral and Medial -
- medial means the parts that lie closer to the midline.
- lateral means the parts that lie farther away from midline.
example: the knee has a medial (inside) and a lateral (outside) surface
Proximal and Distal describes the relationship of two structures in an extremity.
- proximal means closer to the trunk
- distal means further from the trunk
example: the knee is proximal to the ankle and distal to the hip.
Anatomic Positions -
- prone means lying face down
- supine means lying face up
This basic knowledge is very important to being able to effectively treat your patient.
All humanoid species have similar systems.  There are variations depending on the race.
Detailed alien anatomy will be further covered in subsequent classes.
<TEXTURE:f49afe37-f433-4140-13fc-a22ab5dc52c9>
KLINGON:
The Klingon body is specially evolved to suit a warrior.  They have rigid spines, chest and feet which act as armour.
Their anatomy is slightly different than that of humans.
Klingons have multiple organs known as brak'lul, to allow them to survive multiple injuries during battle.
They have a third lung to give them more stamina during combat.
<TEXTURE:9fb787f6-d94f-da42-d610-0a5af4d9aaa8>
They have 2 livers, where a human has 1, and an 8 chambered heart where a human's heart has 4 chambers.
They also have multiple stomachs and even a redundant neural function.
Klingon women have a pregnancy gestation of 30 weeks and Klingon children mature much more rapidly than human children.
They are born to be warriors, even the females.  Their average lifespan is approximately 150 years.
<TEXTURE:8971a5c1-75c6-1ea9-bc06-33fae5e29a33>
TRILL:
Trill have an anatomy very similar to that of a human, but they have an anterior pouch on their abdomen to allow the joining of a symbiont.
The symbiont enters the pouch and connects with a Trill's neural network becoming as one.
Their thoughts are joined, so the Trill gains the memories and experiences of the symbionts previous hosts.
Due to this a Trill is extremely intelligent, often holding multiple degrees.
A Trill symbiont will outlive many hosts.  Once joined, the host and symbiont are dependent on each other after 93 hours.
If the symbiont is removed from the host, symbiont and host will die within hours, even if they are otherwise healthy,
unless they are re implanted with another host or symbiont. The Trill brain had two cerebral nuclei and two different brain wave patterns.
Julian Bashir compared them with two linked computers, which both work for the same task.
Trill are highly allergic to insect bites if they are joined.  The venom from an insect can be fatal to the symbiont.
<TEXTURE:864d96c3-3af0-2216-4a32-d31837bd76da>
VULCAN:
The Vulcan and the human have very similar genetics.  The position of their internal organs is dramatically different than that of humans.
Where a human liver is positioned, you will find a Vulcan heart.  They also had no appendix.
Vulcan blood was copper-based and was copper- or rust-colored when deoxygenated in the veins and green when oxygenated in the arteries.
Vulcans can survive several days without food, water or sleep.  Their metabolism is far superior to humans metabolism.
They also have superior strength and reflexes.
Vulcans possessed a highly efficient respiratory system to extract the oxygen they needed from Vulcan's thin atmosphere.
They were most comfortable in high temperatures, which was natural given the hot, arid climate of their homeworld.
Their hearing is incredibly sensitive and the females of their species have a very acute sense of smell.
They are a highly intelligent species, and rely primarily on logic. Their average lifespan is approximately 200 years.
<TEXTURE:992c83fb-b68f-d17b-473a-1b6a86011bc6>
ANDORIAN:
Andorians are most known for their blue skin, white hair and a pair of antennae on their head.
An Andorian subspecies called the Aenar had white skin and, unlike blue Andorians, were blind and telepathic.
This antennae is used for balance.
When an Andorian loses an antennae, they are unable to fight and will be partially disabled until the antennae grows back.
The placement of Andorian antennae had at least four different variations.
Shran and others of the 22nd century sprouted antennae from their frontal skullbones.
Ambassador Shras and his delegation had antennae which sprung further back, off their parietal bones.
Yet others had longer and thinner antennae.
Andorians, with a higher metabolic rate than Terrans, were especially vulnerable to phase pulse infection; even minor phase injuries could prove fatal.
However, they have demonstrated resistance to a wide range of environmental conditions.
In a climate where the temperature is near the boiling point of water, an Andorian could still thrive, despite losing 10% of their body weight in two days.
<TEXTURE:5c419f97-e11a-ab49-ee74-80bc34748361>
Since Andorian physiology made intravenous injection impossible, physicians administered medication through intramuscular injection instead.
Andorians were true blue bloods: Talas' blood displayed non-viscous, translucent qualities, and were as dark blue as Shran's abrasions.
Andorian tongues and gums alternated from dark blue to pink.
<TEXTURE:dcfcf604-177c-6912-95ec-fde1270a6997>
CAiTIAN:
Caitians are humanoid in appearance and, having descended from primates themselves,
are very similar in build and body shape to humans however,
one of the most striking features of this race is that a Caitians hair normally grows in two or more different colors giving them a two-toned or calico look.
Caitians also sport a pair of sharpened incisors and have been known to use them in close combat.
Caitains are generally perceived as intelligent beings,
though they do appear naïve when it comes to other cultures and can become overwhelmed
and frustrated when confronted by what they perceive as rigid moral standards.
If a coupling results in conception, the male and female responsible will raise the child in the super-family acting as a mother/father unit.
The average Caitian reaches puberty between the ages of 12-15 and immediately becomes sexually active.
Visitors to Catia are often shocked by the planet’s attitude towards sex and nudity,
as the natives never developed the sense of modesty that most races in the galaxy have.
Caitain sexual practices are very casual and are as common as hugs and handshakes on Earth.
More astounding is that Caitians society never developed a barrier between male and female relationships
and so homosexual couplings are just as common as heterosexual couplings.
There is, in fact, no words in the Caitian language for “homosexual” or “bisexual”
as relations between two people of the same sex are commonplace and perfectly natural.
This concludes this course on Anatomy.
There are innumerable species in the galaxy, but this gives you an overview of some of the species you will encounter on a regular basis.
Additional classes will go more in depth into the lifestyles and cultures of alien species.
This concludes our lecture for today.
<TEXTURE:23ce93f6-5e92-9e63-4fc7-8cf3f27f9c35>
<LIGHTS_ON>
Are there any questions?
*Looks around the room*
You may now start your test by activating the computer terminal in front of you.
You will need to score 80% or better to pass this exam.
If you do happen to fail the class you can request a written exam from the Academy Commandant.
If you would like a copy of this class for further reference you can request one from the Academy Commandant.
All students will need to record the grade given on their weekly report. Instructors will record the grade in the gradebook.
Good luck
