<DESC:Introduction to Science>
*Dims the lights and smiles at each cadet*
<LIGHTS_OFF>
<SOUND:581a69d3-37ea-3d17-766f-68cacafb8636>
Greetings and welcome to the Starfleet Delta Quadrant Academy!
<TEXTURE:23ce93f6-5e92-9e63-4fc7-8cf3f27f9c35>
My name is <INSTRUCTOR_NAME> and I will be your instructor for today's class.
Please hold all questions until the end of the lecture, at which time, I will be glad to answer any that you may have.
There will be an exam at the conclusion of the lecture.
You may use your class notes, but please refrain from any talking during the exam.
If you have any questions at that time, please IM the instructor
<TEXTURE:d6894c4d-fd9d-cf1e-cd09-6a0288eed6da>
Welcome to the Medical/Science Division in SDQ!
Our class today is MSI-200 / Intro to Science
*Takes a deep breath and proceeds*
In this class I will try to answer some questions about the Science Division of the UFGQ
What is SCIENCE?
*Smiles and looks around the room*
Science, from the Latin word Scientia, meaning "knowledge",
is a systematic enterprise of gathering knowledge about the world and then organizing and condensing that knowledge into testable laws and theories.
As knowledge has increased, some methods have proved more reliable than others, and today the scientific method is the standard for science.
It includes the use of careful observation, experimentation, measurement, mathematics, and replication —
to be considered a science, a body of knowledge must stand up to repeated testing by independent observers.
In the modern world, scientific research is a major activity in all developed worlds,
and scientists are expected to publish their discoveries in refereed journals, scientific periodicals where referees check the facts in an article before it is published.
Even after publication, new scientific ideas are not generally accepted until the work has been replicated.
Teaching is the sharing of the basics of scientific inquiry, the procurement of an overview of the knowledge of a field of research and the current state of research, and support for their deepening.
And KNOWLEDGE?
The Webster Dictionary defines Science as "Knowledge attained through study or practice,"
"Knowledge covering general truths of the operation of general laws, especially as obtained and tested through scientific method and concerned with the physical world."
Now, what does that definition really mean?
I'll tell you, it refers to a system of acquiring knowledge.
<TEXTURE:7cb2c246-ded8-9a2f-d4e6-69d4219d681e>
I quote Fadm Taurus, the CO of our academy from one of his speeches:
"The definition of knowledge is a matter of on-going debate. Plato defined knowledge as “Justified True Belief”, which is, in order to know that a given proposition is true.
One must not only believe the relevant true proposition, but one must also have justification for doing so.
Another definition specifies that a statement must meet three criteria in order to be considered knowledge: it must be Justified, True, and Believed.
In other words just because you know the facts on a subject does not necessarily make you knowledgeable on it.
Albert Einstein once said “Information is not knowledge”. It is how we use the information we have that makes us knowledgeable."
*Steps around the podium and perches on an empty desk*
<TEXTURE:8f2c7d7e-255f-2497-4161-b61bfa0fa4be>
So what is OUR JOB?
We try to explain our universe. We try to find new methods to solve problems.
Our field starts with the development of a new scanner for radiation and ends with the search for the reason of our own being.
To find their field of interest, or better their area of expertise, we have the following overview for new Member of this Division:
The Science Division is made up of five groups, Formal Science, Natural Science, Applied Science, Cognitive Science and Social Science.
FORMAL SCIENCE
The Formal Sciences Group’s a branch of knowledge that is concerned with formal systems,
for instance, logic, mathematical, systems theory, computer science, information theory, decision theory, statistics, and some aspects of linguistics.
The formal sciences are made up of symbols and theoretical rules -
which are based on actions and reactions. They can often be transferred into reality through the use of the applied sciences and thus, are proved to be very useful.
It is fair to say is that there is no system (that we know of) which contains no inputs or outputs.
Problems occur in formal science mostly when dealing with subjectiveness.
For example, a computer program will find it hard handling emotion, unless you are able to define the effects in relation to an envelope's threshold.
The difference between formal science and natural science is that the formal scientists concern themselves mostly with storing,
encoding, decoding and manipulating input & output of data whereas the natural scientists concern themselves solely with relevance of the observable data alone.
A good example of this how natural and social scientists seem to think a hypothesis and evaluation is a fixed requirement for use within a scientific method.
A hypothesis usually defines falsifiable terms in order to 'prove' or 'disprove' a prediction which can be based on subjective conjecture, observations
or even just an "educated guess" and an evaluation usually 'tests' the falsifiable terms, to see if the prediction was 'correct' or 'incorrect'.
Formal science does not attempt to "guess" what "will happen" during a test.
It does not believe in 'proving' or 'disproving' a biased prediction 'right' or 'wrong' and thus only relies on the most objective factors.
Formal scientists believe that people can make their own mind up and draw their own conclusions from the actions and consequences themselves.
In short, they tend to look at on what happens rather than attempting to justify why it happens.
Mathematics, logic, words and symbols are frequently used by natural scientists, thus formal science often provides a natural scientist's toolkit.
Fields within Formal Science include:
*Computer Sciences
*Mathematics
*Statistics
*Systems Sciences
NATURAL SCIENCE
Natural sciences form the basis for the living and the dead applied sciences.
Together, the natural and applied sciences are distinguished from the social sciences on the one hand, and the liberal arts on the other.
Though mathematics, statistics, and computer science are not considered natural sciences
(mathematics traditionally considered among the liberal arts and statistics among the humanities, for instance),
they provide many tools and frameworks used within the natural sciences.
Alongside this traditional usage, the phrase natural sciences is also sometimes used more narrowly to refer to its everyday usage, that is, related to natural history.
In this sense "natural sciences" may refer to the biology and perhaps also the earth sciences, as distinguished from the physical sciences, including astronomy, physics, and chemistry.
Within the natural sciences, the term hard science is sometimes used to describe those sub-fields that rely on experimental,
quantifiable data or the scientific method and focus on accuracy and objectivity.
These usually include physics, chemistry and biology.
By contrast, soft science is often used to describe the scientific fields that are more reliant on qualitative research, including the social sciences.
Natural Science is commonly used as an umbrella term to refer to a plurality of fields outside of the social sciences.
These include:
*Astronomy
*Biology
*Chemistry
*Earth Sciences
*Physics
CROSS-DISCIPLINES
The distinctions between the natural science disciplines are not always sharp, and they share a number of cross-discipline fields.
Physics plays a significant role in the other natural sciences, as represented by astrophysics, geophysics, physical chemistry and biophysics.
Likewise chemistry is represented by such fields as biochemistry, geochemistry and astrochemistry.
APPLIED SCIENCE
Applied science is the application of scientific knowledge transferred into a physical environment.
Examples include testing a theoretical model through the use of formal science, or solving a practical problem through the use of natural science.
Fields of engineering are closely related to applied sciences.
Applied science is important for technology development. Its use in industrial settings is usually referred to as research and development (R&D).
Applied science differs from fundamental science, which seeks to describe the most basic objects and forces, having less emphasis on practical applications.
Fields within Applied Science include:
*Agronomy
*Architecture
*Education
*Engineering
*Health Sciences
*Management
*Military Sciences
*Spatial Science
COGNITIVE SCIENCE
Cognitive science is the interdisciplinary study of mind and intelligence, for example, how information is represented and transformed in a brain or in a machine.
It consists of multiple research disciplines,
including psychology, artificial intelligence, philosophy, neuroscience, learning sciences, linguistics, anthropology, sociology, and education.
It spans many levels of analysis, from low-level learning and decision mechanisms to high-level logic and planning; from neural circuitry to modular brain organization.
The term cognitive science was coined by Christopher Longuet-Higgins in his 1973 commentary on the Lighthill report,
which concerned the then-current state of Artificial Intelligence research.
Fields within Cognitive Science include:
*Anthropology
*Cognitive Science of Mathematics
*Cognitive Science of Religion
*Cognitive Linguistics
*Cognitive Neuropsychology
*Cognitive Neuroscience
*Cognitive Psychology
SOCIAL SCIENCE
The social sciences are the fields of academic scholarship which explore aspects of human society.
Social sciences may draw upon empirical methods and attempt to emulate the standards of conventional scientific practice.
By contrast, other social scientists employ critical analysis or hermeneutic methods to study objects of enquiry they regard as inconsistent with the conventional approach.
Social science is commonly used as an umbrella term to refer to a plurality of fields outside of the natural sciences.
These include:
*Anthropology
*Economics
*Education
*Geography
*History
*Law
*Linguistics
*Political Sciences
*Psychology
*Sociology
You see we are the division with the largest field of interest. You can find science officers at a starship, station and of course here at the academy.
Science interlinks with the other divisions in a numerous of ways.
Just because you choose a career in Science does not mean that you will not make Captain of your own Starship nor does it mean that you can't become a leading engineer someday.
With a background in science, the universe is yours to obtain.
Equal what your special field at science division is.
Never, in any case, let the Prime-Directive out of your mind.
To protect life in all forms has priority.
Never risk the lives aboard of your Ship, Station, our comrades, or the life a life form you found for an experiment.
Watch and learn and do not forget to take sometimes a look out of the window to enjoy our universe.
And OUR ROLES?
In order to be a science officer aboard a starship, one needs to be in the Science division.
JUNIOR SCIENCE OFFICER
The role of the Junior Science officer is to carry out standard scientific duties aboard both STARBASES and STARSHIPS alike.
They are also to provide support to their relevant Departmental Head and in some cases directly to both the Assistant Chief Science Officer and the Chief Science Officer.
Junior Science Officers are also required to supply the DEPARTMENTAL HEADS with all reports, observations, and speculations that might affect the safety of their vessel/ station.
The Junior Science Officers are also required to assist on away missions as directed by the CSO.
In order to be a Junior Science Officer, the candidate needs to meet the following requirements:
*Rank of Ensign or above
*Completed all mandatory classes at Starfleet Academy
*Completed Intro to Science 101
*Completed at least 3 further classes within the College of Science
ASSISTANT CHIEF SCIENCE OFFICER
The Assistant Chief Science Officer (ACSO) plays the same vital role to the CSO as the First Officer does for the Captain of a starship or the Commander of a Starbase.
It is the responsibility of the ACSO to coordinate and assign relevant scientific duties to the Heads of the individual Scientific Departments.
In the absence of a CSO, the ACSO will provide the Ship's Captain/ Station Commander and the First Officer/ Executive Officer with all reports,
observations, and speculations that might affect the safety of their vessel/ station.
They will also recommend Scientific Personnel for away missions.
In order to be a Assistant Chief Science Officer, the candidate needs to meet the following requirements:
*Rank of Lieutenant or above
*Completed all mandatory classes at Starfleet Academy
*Completed Intro to Science 1011
*Completed all science classes within the chosen department at the College of Science.
*Complete the Officer Track
CHIEF SCIENCE OFFICER
The Chief Science Officer (CSO) is the Senior Science Officer aboard a starship or starbase with the broad responsibility of coordinating the Science Department.
The CSO is also required to supply the Ship's Captain/ Station Commander and the First Officer/ Executive Officer with all reports, observations,
and speculations that might affect the safety of their vessel/ station.
The CSO is also responsible for assigning the appropriate Science Officers to away missions, ensuring that the requirements of the mission are met.
The CSO may also have a secondary role within the starbase or the starship on which they serve.
In order to be a Chief Science Officer, the candidate needs to meet the following requirements:
*Rank of Lieutenant Commander or above
*Completed all mandatory classes at Starfleet Academy
*Completed Intro to Science 101
*Completed all science classes within the chosen department at the College of Science.
*Complete the Officer Track
DEPARTMENTAL HEADS
The Departmental Heads are responsible for organizing their individual departments under the direct command of the CSO.
The DH’s are also responsible for monitoring the performance of all staff within their department.
In order to be a Departmental Head, the candidate needs to meet the following requirements:
*Rank of Lieutenant JG or above
*Completed all mandatory classes at Starfleet Academy
*Completed Intro to Science 101
*Completed all science classes within the chosen department at the College of Science.
*Complete the Officer Track
And OUR DUTIES?
Overall, Science Officers are responsible for observing and theorizing explanations for strange or at least seemingly unexplainable circumstances.
Additionally, all members of the Science Division have to help coordinate and develop role playing scenarios for the exploration of the Gamma Quadrant,
including the current solar system we reside in, the Magellan System.
All Officers in this division are order to:
- send a Monthly Officer Activity Report (MOAR) to the Science Division CO (the DEPARTMENTAL HEAD) by the 20 of a month
- answer the monthly Attendance at the forum
- answer the monthly Division Role Call at the forum
- if there are assigned to a ship or station answer the monthly Roll Call of their ship or station
- take active part on the live of the UFGQ
Every ideas for additional classes or roleplay or material for the science division are always welcome.
This concludes our lecture for today.
<TEXTURE:23ce93f6-5e92-9e63-4fc7-8cf3f27f9c35>
<LIGHTS_ON>
Are there any questions?
*Looks around the room*
You may now start your test by activating the computer terminal in front of you.
You will need to score 80% or better to pass this exam.
If you do happen to fail the class you can request a written exam from the Academy Commandant.
If you would like a copy of this class for further reference you can request one from the Academy Commandant.
All students will need to record the grade given on their weekly report. Instructors will record the grade in the gradebook.
Good luck
