<DESC:Introduction to Xenobiology>
*Dims the lights and smiles at each cadet*
<LIGHTS_OFF>
<SOUND:581a69d3-37ea-3d17-766f-68cacafb8636>
Greetings and welcome to the Starfleet Delta Quadrant Academy!
<TEXTURE:23ce93f6-5e92-9e63-4fc7-8cf3f27f9c35>
My name is <INSTRUCTOR_NAME> and I will be your instructor for today's class.
Please hold all questions until the end of the lecture, at which time, I will be glad to answer any that you may have.
There will be an exam at the conclusion of the lecture.
You may use your class notes, but please refrain from any talking during the exam.
If you have any questions at that time, please IM the instructor
<TEXTURE:d6894c4d-fd9d-cf1e-cd09-6a0288eed6da>
Welcome to the Medical/Science Division in SDQ!
Our class today is MSI-103 / Intro to Xenobiology
*Takes a deep breath and proceeds*
<TEXTURE:f12ff8b7-90f4-6bc5-4e31-b345d14d1d0b>
Xenobiology is the study of all aspects of life, intelligence, and civilization indigenous to environments across the universe.
It is also referred to as Exobiology or Astrobiology.
Xenobiology is a science that specializes in studying the universe's life forms, such as animals, plants, fungi and bacterium.
It is a major subdiscipline within the xenological sciences.
In the 20th and 21st centuries Terra had sent spacecraft to other neighboring planets to sample and compile a wealth of information about various species and their development,
just as we now visit other planets and collect information to be used for treatment and research of various lifeforms.
The dictionary describes Xenobiology as a multidisciplinary field dealing with the nature, existence, and search for extraterrestrial life (life beyond Earth).
Astrobiology encompasses areas of biology, astronomy, and geology.
<TEXTURE:3d8406e8-a9e4-e040-b722-d52804b5aaad>
The evolutionary origins of traumatic insemination are disputed.
Although it evolved independently in many invertebrate species, traumatic insemination is most highly adapted and thoroughly studied in bedbugs,
particularly Cimex lectularius. Traumatic insemination is not limited to male-female couplings, or even couplings of the same species.
Both homosexual and inter-species traumatic inseminations have been observed. Traumatic insemination has been likened to human sadomasochism, stabbing, and rape behaviors.
However, such coercive sex practices are common in nature and provide sperm competition, enable bypassing the mating plug, and overcome female resistance to being mated.
Most living creatures we know about are made up of complex carbon compounds immersed in liquid water.
Chemists long have been aware of literally hundreds of amino acids in addition to the normal 20 which make up all protein molecules coded by DNA in humanoid biology.
No one knows exactly why these particular 20 were selected by evolution for the job.
There seems nothing to prevent each extraterrestrial carbon/water DNA/protein life chemistry from having its own unique set of amino acid building blocks.
It also necessarily includes the concept of artificial life or inorganic life forms, since any life form that might naturally evolve elsewhere can be created in a laboratory using current technology.
The prime example of this is an android called Data.  Data was created by a scientist by the name of Noonien Soon.
Soong's early work was highly regarded with his work on the positronic brain.
<TEXTURE:97d0b8b6-1197-6f4c-750a-9517d71a950d>
It is useful at this point to ask exactly how biochemical biology is relevant to our study of alien beings.
A xenologist who speaks of “lifeforms” most generally refers to an entity or material system that metabolizes both matter-energy and information.
(Metabolism is any mechanism which accepts a set of inputs and then processes them to produce a specific set of outputs.)
A few might also demand that each metabolism be survival-oriented or geared for reproduction,
but it is clear that the lifeform concept is vastly broader than traditional notions based on Earthly life.
Xenobiologists would argue that while all biochemical biological entities must be lifeforms, not all life forms need be biochemical in constitution.
<TEXTURE:6a50f73f-7085-3b36-ef36-442642226dd9>
Life requires metabolism, a systematic manipulation of matter-energy and information.
But manipulation can only be accomplished by the application of force. Physicists tell us there are just four fundamental forces in nature.
Most powerful is the nuclear or strong “chromodynamic” force,
responsible both for binding protons and neutrons together in atomic nuclei and for holding subnuclear “quarks” together within individual protons, neutrons and other particles.
Less strong is the electromagnetic force, which provides the attraction or repulsion between charged objects and predominates in the chemical reactions of terrestrial biochemistry.
The weak force mediates many processes of radioactive decay.
Finally there is gravity, by far the weakest force, which manifests itself in the universal attraction of all matter-energy.
We can imagine four broad classes of metabolic entities – chromodynamic or nuclear lifeforms, electromagnetic life forms (e.g., all Earth life, including humans), weak lifeforms, and gravitational lifeforms.
Each is most likely to evolve in those environments where the forces upon which they most depend predominate over all others.
Xenobiologists spend most of their time in the laboratory researching and studying the varying physical makeup of different species.
For example, the Klingon peoples have a second set of major organs as a "fail safe" in case of injury in battle, and the joined Trill host will not survive upon removal of the symbiont.
The xenobiologist is a key position in the medical industry as we travel the universe meeting new species.
They are the scientists responsible for designing and discovering new treatments, procedures, and medications that are effective on the different species.
<TEXTURE:a54fa38-fccb-e1b9-fa93-083160ad5490>
As a Xenobiologist you will work very closely with the Doctors both in the sick bay and in the field when treating patients.
You will not treat patients directly, but must be a knowledgeable advisor the the doctors.
You must be aware of the physical differences as well as the psychological differences of each species in order to effectively treat and heal the patient.
This concludes our lecture for today.
<TEXTURE:23ce93f6-5e92-9e63-4fc7-8cf3f27f9c35>
<LIGHTS_ON>
Are there any questions?
*Looks around the room*
You may now start your test by activating the computer terminal in front of you.
You will need to score 80% or better to pass this exam.
If you do happen to fail the class you can request a written exam from the Academy Commandant.
If you would like a copy of this class for further reference you can request one from the Academy Commandant.
All students will need to record the grade given on their weekly report. Instructors will record the grade in the gradebook.
Good luck
