<DESC:Famous Doctors of Starfleet>
*Dims the lights and smiles at each cadet*
<LIGHTS_OFF>
<SOUND:581a69d3-37ea-3d17-766f-68cacafb8636>
Greetings and welcome to the Starfleet Delta Quadrant Academy!
<TEXTURE:23ce93f6-5e92-9e63-4fc7-8cf3f27f9c35>
My name is <INSTRUCTOR_NAME> and I will be your instructor for today's class.
Please hold all questions until the end of the lecture, at which time, I will be glad to answer any that you may have.
There will be an exam at the conclusion of the lecture.
You may use your class notes, but please refrain from any talking during the exam.
If you have any questions at that time, please IM the instructor
<TEXTURE:d6894c4d-fd9d-cf1e-cd09-6a0288eed6da>
Welcome to the Medical/Science Division in SDQ!
Our class today is MSI-102 / Famous Doctors of Starfleet
*Takes a deep breath and proceeds*
Over the centuries Starfleet has boasted some of the best Medical Doctors in the Universe.  This class will teach you a little about the most noted Doctors in the fleet.
<TEXTURE:a5197443-b9b0-4817-0b45-3676d033ec36>
DR. PHLOX
We will start with one of the most versatile Physicians in Starfleet history, Dr Phlox.
Phlox was born on the planet Denobula sometime in the late 21st century.
Sometime prior to 2149, Doctor Phlox joined the Interspecies Medical Exchange and was assigned to Starfleet Medical on Terra.
Over the course of his career, Phlox obtained a dozen scientific degrees,
including six in interspecies veterinary medicine, and others in dentistry,
hematology, botanical pharmacology, and psychiatry.
Phlox was brought on board Enterprise NX-01 for the maiden voyage in April of 2151 at the request of Captain Jonathan Archer.
Phlox became one of Archer's most trusted advisers and on many occasions his counselor. He also frequently played devil's advocate for Archer.
There were a few issues that they came into conflict over, but this only strengthened their friendship.
He used very unorthodox medical practices due to the relatively primitive medical technology of the early 2150s.
He frequently used animals in various ways to assist in his patient's' healing. His sickbay on Enterprise was quite a menagerie.
Some of the creatures are food for other animals which are used as a source for medical drugs.
As all Denobulans, Phlox only requires 6 days of sleep per year.
This is typically done as a brief hibernation period.  Back on his home planet, Phlox has 3 wives, all of which have 3 other husbands, and 5 children.
Denobulans have great control of their facial muscles being able to open their mouths wider than humans
and when threatened have the ability to inflate their heads to scare off would-be attackers.
<TEXTURE:d21b38bc-7725-8a66-f925-86335b531c79>
DR LEONARD MCCOY
One of the most famous Doctors was none other than Dr Leonard McCoy.
Born in 2227 on Earth and posted as CMO on the USS Enterprise 1401 in 2266 under the command of Captain James T. Kirk.
McCoy was an accomplished surgeon, physician, psychologist, and exobiologist, and was also considered an expert in space psychology.
He served Starfleet for a total of 27 years.
McCoy was given the nickname "Bones" early on in his career.
This nickname derives from an old Earth epithet for physicians, primarily surgeons, called "sawbones".
Bones was very suspicious of technology, especially the transporter, saying that he didn't want his molecules scattered all over space.
Although he was a great believer in the body's own natural ability to heal and felt that a little suffering was good for the soul,
he also held 23rd century medicine in high esteem and frequently lamented how barbarous medicine used to be in the past.
He was well known for his quick wit and cantankerous nature towards the Enterprise's second in command and Science Officer Mr Spock.
On stardate 41153.7, the 137-year old Admiral Leonard McCoy inspected the USS Enterprise-D during its first mission.
He commented on the great significance of the ship's name to Lieutenant Commander Data, telling Data "You treat her like a lady... and she'll always bring you home."
<TEXTURE:6fdfb45b-41dd-a080-096a-ae6f2fbcc8f9>
DR BEVERLY CRUSHER
Beverly Howard was born in Copernicus City on Earth's moon Luna October 13, 2324.
Her parents died when she was a young age and she was raised by her grandmother Felisa Howard on Arvada III.
Grandmother Felisa was a healer, using herbs, grasses, tree chemicals, and roots as medicines sparking Beverly's interest in medicine.
She was highly intelligent and graduated at the top of her class from Starfleet Academy Medical School in 2350.
Beverly married Lt Jack Crusher, who served under Captain Jean-Luc Picard on the USS Stargazer.
They had one son, Wesley.
Jack was killed in an accident on the Stargazer in 2354.  Beverly later joined the USS Enterprise D under the command of her old friend Captain Picard.
She was a talented dance, having won several trophies for her performances.
Beverly and Jean-Luc grew very fond and affectionate toward each other; although neither wanted to admit how they felt.
It was revealed that in an alternate future Dr Crusher and Captain Picard had been married and divorced.
Early in her Enterprise D career, in 2355, she was promoted to Head of Starfleet Medical, returning to the Enterprise one year later after finding it hard to stay away.
<TEXTURE:cbb61c06-96ab-fe40-5b3d-6fcd04789572>
DR KATHERINE PULASKI
Born on Earth, Katherine had an extensive career in Starfleet Medical originally serving on the USS Repulse, under Captain Taggert.
She joined the USS Enterprise D in 2365 during the reassignment of Dr Crusher to Starfleet Medical Head of Staff.
She was a traditional doctor, and often considered archaic, as was her predecessor Dr McCoy.
Like Dr McCoy, Dr Pulaski hated transporters, preferring to take the shuttle whenever possible.
Katherine was married and divorced three times and had a long standing relationship with one Kyle Riker, father of William T Riker.
She was a published writer with a book titled "Linear Models of Viral Propagation" which was considered standard text for research on the subject for several years.
Her interests included poker and Klingon Literature.
She had a severe personality conflict with Commander Data of the USS Enterprise,
considering him merely a machine and she could not understand why he wished to be human.
Katherine often spoke of him in the third person, even while he was present, and even referred to Data as 'it".
She maintained a strained working relationship with Captain Picard, as her stubborn, brusque manner annoyed him.
<TEXTURE:09019582-e750-b434-91e9-733a13c93842>
DR JULIAN BASHIR
Julian Bashir was an only child, born in late 2341 on Earth.
As a child, Julian fell behind in school, and was evaluated as having learning difficulties. Because of this, his parents, Richard and Amsha Bashir, had him subjected to genetic engineering.
In 2348, just before Julian's seventh birthday, the Bashir family left Earth for Adigeon Prime.
At first, he was excited to see all the aliens in the hospital, but then they gave him a room and started a series of treatments.
These treatments, known as "accelerated critical neural pathway formation," were a method of genetic engineering that involved the resequencing of his DNA.
Over the course of two months, his genetic structure was manipulated to accelerate the growth of the neuronal networks in his cerebral cortex, and a new Julian Bashir was born.
The focus of his "enhancements" were to increase his mental abilities: his IQ jumped five points a day for over two weeks.
Further treatments led to improvements in his hand-eye coordination, reflexes, vision, stamina, height and weight.
In the end everything but his name had been altered in some way.
Due to his genetic enhancements Julian, in many ways, possessed a superior physiology to other Humans.
His intellect was the most obvious example of this, as he was able to perform computations faster than a computer and his recall was almost absolute.
Physically he was also enhanced, although his physical abilities are mostly less remarkable.
His hand-eye coordination is greatly enhanced to the point where he can hit the smallest part of a dart board with ease at over eight feet,
his hearing is also enhanced beyond that of a normal human, and his reflexes are closer to a Vulcan.
He also has limited control of his vital signs, although he loses control if significantly weakened.
Bashir graduated second in his class at Starfleet Medical, having purposely missed a question on his final exam.
He also took "engineering extension" courses during his time there.  He had his choice of assignments, but chose Deep Space Nine for the opportunity to practice "frontier medicine".
<TEXTURE:c07c232b-f2c0-4e1c-9aa2-652e41dc4603>
THE DOCTOR
The Doctor was the USS Voyager's Emergency Medical Holographic program or EMH.
The EMH Mark I was a computer program with a holographic interface in the form of a human male doctor.
This program was specifically designed to function in emergency situations only.
Developed to be an emergency supplement to the medical team on starships and was only meant to run for a maximum of 1500 hours.
It had little personality and interpersonal skills.
It was capable of treating any known injury or disease and was programmed with the medical knowledge of every member-world and that of over 5 million surgical procedures.
It was even capable of learning and adapting in order to create new medical treatments.
The lack of a live physician in the on the Voyager, combined with its sudden relocation to the sparse Delta Quadrant necessitated The Doctor to run his program full time.
The Doctor even acquired many hobbies and interests, developed close personal relationships with particular crew members, and even fell in love.
Attempting to develop a realistic personality, the Doctor not only manufactured a holographic family, he had an increasing number of other 'human' experiences.
This resulted in the Doctor's program evolving to become more lifelike, with emotions and ambitions.
The Doctor later acquired a mobile holographic emitter from the 29th Century.
Although he had previously been confined to Sickbay or the Holodeck, the mobile emitter allowed the Doctor to move about freely,
making him ideal for missions where the environment would be harmful or otherwise fatal to the crew.
<TEXTURE ad01b97e-25c3-5f66-253e-d587f52a1e70>
Throughout the history of Starfleet, the Doctors of Starfleet have played an integral role in history exploring the galaxy, eradicating diseases and treating species of all shapes and sizes.
This concludes our lecture for today.
<TEXTURE:23ce93f6-5e92-9e63-4fc7-8cf3f27f9c35>
<LIGHTS_ON>
Are there any questions?
*Looks around the room*
You may now start your test by activating the computer terminal in front of you.
You will need to score 80% or better to pass this exam.
If you do happen to fail the class you can request a written exam from the Academy Commandant.
If you would like a copy of this class for further reference you can request one from the Academy Commandant.
All students will need to record the grade given on their weekly report. Instructors will record the grade in the gradebook.
Good luck
