<DESC:Klingin Empire Weaponry>
*Dims the lights and smiles at each cadet*
<LIGHTS_OFF>
<SOUND:581a69d3-37ea-3d17-766f-68cacafb8636>
Greetings and welcome to the Starfleet Gamma Quadrant Academy!
<TEXTURE:23ce93f6-5e92-9e63-4fc7-8cf3f27f9c35>
My name is <INSTRUCTOR_NAME> and I will be your instructor for today's class.
Please hold all questions until the end of the lecture, at which time, I will be glad to answer any that you may have.
There will be an exam at the conclusion of the lecture.
You may use your class notes, but please refrain from any talking during the exam.
If you have any questions at that time, please IM the instructor
<TEXTURE:cb1fed43-d5cd-14df-d2e0-9b6cbce51574>
Welcome to the Security Division in SDQ!
Our class today is SEC-107 / Klingon Empire Weaponry
*Takes a deep breath and proceeds*
The Klingons are a proud warrior race that use a variety of  weapons
that come in thousands of types and styles.
Some are for battle and some are ceremonia,l but all are deadly.
In this class we will cover the most common ones that you may encounter.
Melee Weapons
The melee weapons vary in style and usage.
One type of knife or Bat’leth can look greatly different from another of the same type.
Most of this customization is due to personal preference and family tradition.
<TEXTURE:84e148f6-3fef-c8f6-804e-2a51f79614eb>
Bat'leth
The Bat’leth or “sword of honor” is a traditional Klingon longsword resembling a crescent-shaped, two-ended scimitar (sword with a curved blade).
The bat'leth is wielded using three handholds along the outside edge of the blade.
It is widely considered the most popular weapon among Klingon warriors.
Klingon oral history holds that the first bat'leth was forged around 625 A.D. by Kahless the Unforgettable,
who dropped a lock of his hair into the lava from the Kri'stak Volcano, then plunged the fiery lock into the lake of Lursor and twisted it to form a blade.
After forging the weapon, he used it to defeat the tyrant Molor, and in doing so united the Klingon Homeworld.
A traditional bat'leth is typically approximately 45.5 inches (116 cm) long,
with blades of composite baakonite, weighs about 12 lbs. (5.3 kg), and has an exterior hand grip diameter of 2 inches (5 cm).
Tactical Advantages: Range; striking area; good solid grip; large defensive (or blocking) area; intimidation factor; devastating damage.
Tactical Disadvantages: Large; cumbersome; some materials are heavy; improper sizing could add to inefficiency;
overconfidence can develop in certain situation; not as effective against smaller; quicker weapons; no good against an energy weapon fired at range.
<TEXTURE:eeb36c0d-f2b5-2c5c-1db8-284deaf9f4e7>
Mek'leth
The mek'leth or "Bridge Sword" has been around since the early Klingon starships.
Though the custom-made varieties available vaguely resemble the original "field-expedient" mek'leths in looks, they do function much the same, if not better.
Each mek'leth is different at first glance, subject to the taste of the individual owner and the artistic flair of the armorer that created it.
Even the name has evolved from meHleH - "sword that comes from the bridge", to mek'leth - "sword for use on the bridge".
It has a curved blade approx. 12 inches (30 cm) long, and is an imposing sight.
Especially suited to close-quarters combat, such as in the corridors of a ship being boarded.
Tactical Advantages: Light, quick, small, medium-concealment, practical when worn/carried in skilled hands- very deadly. (i.e.: one for parry; one for attack; etc.)
It is difficult to disarm an opponent that is using mek'leths.
Disadvantages: Less surface area for parry; requires medium to high level of personal weapon skill; short reach. ship being boarded.
<TEXTURE:30030c87-f59d-cc4e-5659-2ecf014f8f3e>
D'k tahg
A d'k tahg is a Klingon dagger. It is one of the most popular combat knives of the Klingon empire.
Klingon d'k tahg knives vary frequently, this may be due to designs based on the House served, Fleet served, the rank, the family, or personal preference of the individual.
Some of the differences are subtle, such as changes in the shape of the blood line, others are drastic, such as changes in the shape of the handle.
Generally all the knives share this in common, they are approx. 13 - 16 inches (33.02 - 40.64 cm) long, the blades are approx. 3/16 of an inch ( 4.7625 mm) thick and 2 inches (5.08 cm) wide at the widest point.
It’s wasp like shape, large slotted ricasso and folding twin guard blades are distinctive features that sets it apart from every other Klingon blade.
The knife has three blades: a main blade with a cutout in the center, and two smaller blades on either side.
In some models, these side blades are spring loaded and can pop out into position and close up for storage. In other models, the blades are fixed.
It also features a pommel studded with blunt spikes.
<TEXTURE:de768d15-bd49-f4d7-437b-b8a0b6b01463>
The Ma’veq (Mavek or m'veQ)
Ma’veq is a ceremonial Klingon knife, used in the ceremonial killing of disgraced Klingons by a sibling, in order to bring them honor in the afterlife.
This ceremony is called Mauk To’Vor. The length is approx. 14 inches ( 35.56 cm) long.
<TEXTURE:6e76ee05-70f4-7e37-6c5b-8cd41add6a68>
Jejtaj
The Jejtaj is a one handed purely defensive weapon.
It can block any type of weapon attack.
The other free hand may carry a small dagger or sword (ie.: Mek'leth or a D'k tahg), for attacks or counter-attacks.
The jejtaj can be wielded like a pair of brass knuckles, with enough practice, one can parry bladed attacks with it and use it as a rudimentary throwing star.
Handheld Energized Weapons
<TEXTURE:ca5d5579-0d1a-2fa1-6a6d-b8acac17d7d6>
Disruptors
The current frontline Klingon energy weapon is the disruptor, which doubles as a rifle unit.
The rifle extension includes a shoulder stock, as in the Bajoran rifle.
The physics behind the disruptor involves the creation of a particle stream in which the total energy field per particle is so high that it cannot be contained for more than a few milliseconds.
The field rapidly unwinds, and the instability release the contained energy, disrupting any matter the beam contacts.
Disruptors are employed by the Cardassian Union, Romulan Star Empire, Klingon Empire, Breen, and Orions.
In their personal and military small arms as well as being mounted as cannon, emitters, turrets, and banks.
Only the first three are known to have type-3 disruptors, the most advanced developed so far, by the 24th century.
This is the main weapon all Klingons carry. The disruptor normally only has two settings: stun and kill.
Ship Mounted Energized Weapons
<TEXTURE:0ef2b289-dfd1-70f1-2d5e-d1c43d06aa7a>
Disruptor Cannons
A disruptor cannon is a directed energy weapon commonly used aboard starships of many different species.
Disruptor weapons generally carry more energy than standard phaser weapons but lack in accuracy and fast discharge.
Klingon 22nd century Birds-of-Prey were equipped with an impressive arsenal, for the time, and included wing-mounted (and belly mounted) disruptor cannons and photon torpedo launchers.
These cannon were capable of firing in either disruptor pulse or beam modes.
Found on Klingon Birds-of-Prey, Negh'Var and Vor'cha-class cruisers.
Disruptor Cannons delivers a phasic shield inhibitor along with special hull-breaching capabilities.
<TEXTURE:9e1942ad-d40c-2039-c63e-50a2cca77510>
Photon Torpedos ( Pu'DaH dak cha )
A photon torpedo is a weapon armed with an antimatter warhead.
Klingons have been yielding such weapons since the mid-22nd century.
Starfleet uncovered that the Klingons have had photon torpedo technology since as early as 2151.
They used them extensively on board Raptor-class scout ships, as well as Birds-of-Prey.
The 24th century saw the deployment of an improved type of ordnance: the quantum torpedo.
The components of a torpedo were contained within an elongated elliptical metallic casing approximately 2.5 meters in length.
The weapon is comprised of two tanks armed with a warhead filled with magnetically constrained matter (deuterium) and antimatter separated from contact by a forcefield.
When the torpedo reaches its target the forcefield drops, bringing the two reactants into contact.
They annihilate each other releasing energy in the process.
Care had to be taken by the launching ship or installation when it came to firing a torpedo against targets at short range.
Like all explosives, the energy released from the detonation was indiscriminate and could cause damage to the torpedo's source as well as the intended target.
The launching system (or torpedo tube) is essentially a railgun - the torpedo is accelerated to a significant fraction of light-speed by electrodynamic magnets.
Once in open space, guidance thrusters kick in to guide the torpedo to its target with most of the accelerative force being provided by the launching systems.
Modern torpedo systems are designed to launch groups of torpedoes simultaneously, in some cases up to 10 per volley.
<TEXTURE:50f0b6e5-62b8-9fd1-a757-f9fcb131a7d0>
Cloaking Device
A cloaking device is a form of stealth technology that uses selective bending of light (and other forms of energy),
to render a starship or other object completely invisible to the electromagnetic spectrum and most sensors.
It has been encountered in varying forms over the centuries.
One of the first Klingon vessels to be equipped with the device was the IKS Klothos, whose Commander, Kor, used it to great effect at the Battle of Caleb IV.
The device was soon used aboard many other Klingon vessels, such as the Birds-of-Prey.
It has been speculated that the Klingon Empire acquired cloaking technology during an alliance with the Romulans.
In order to function, a cloaking device needs to be tied into a ship's deflector shield grid.
Along with high power consumption, this would explain why a cloaking device and a ship's shields cannot be raised at the same time.
However, there have been several times when advances in cloaking technology have rendered this untrue.
Ever since the original encounter with the cloaking device, there has been an ongoing technological race between the galactic powers;
as organizations like the Federation try to develop new ways of penetrating the cloak, those who use the cloak continually devise ways to render it impenetrable.
Versions of the cloak used by the Klingons in the late 23rd century also had their flaws.
Visible energy distortions were detectable while cloaked and prior to decloaking, in 2293, the Enterprise-A developed a method of using a torpedo to track the plasma exhaust of a cloaked ship.
In the 24th century, the Federation protected its borders from cloaked Romulan incursion by a gravitic sensor net.
In 2368, Geordi La Forge developed a technique called the tachyon detection grid that used tachyon beams transmitted between different points to expose cloaked objects.
Soon, this had been implemented on the Federation's border outposts as well as in Klingon space.
It is less commonly known that cloaked ships radiate a slight subspace variance at warp speeds.
These variances typically vanish once the vessel drops out of warp.
If a cloaked ship exceeds its maximum propulsion capacity, it will not be able to fully cloak, and will appear on navigational sensors as a sensor echo.
This concludes our lecture for today.
<TEXTURE:23ce93f6-5e92-9e63-4fc7-8cf3f27f9c35>
<LIGHTS_ON>
Are there any questions?
*Looks around the room*
You may now start your test by activating the computer terminal in front of you.
You will need to score 80% or better to pass this exam.
If you do happen to fail the class you can request a written exam from the Academy Commandant.
If you would like a copy of this class for further reference you can request one from the Academy Commandant.
All students will need to record the grade given on their weekly report. Instructors will record the grade in the gradebook.
Good luck
